---
layout: chapter-template
title: "Chapter 7: Guns and Corpses"
story_slug: "everblue"
story: "Everblue"
chapter: 10
---

The afternoon heralded more fog, and as the three men strode toward the
mighty ship anchored at the docks, the news broke that the evening would
not see her sails swell with the singing winds.

Just as well. Between the boy at the docks and the watchmaker and his
gift, Constance had not found an appropriate crack to slip through; with
Pudger, Reese, and McCabe keeping her in sight and at arm's length, the
right moment had eluded her. Fortunately, three men were more difficult
to evade than a hundred, and with the added help of an old friend that
liked to fill the stomach and bog the mind, she should have no trouble
becoming dust and smoke in between drinks. The night would welcome her,
as it was wont to do her kind, cloaking thieves and crooks in the
thickest veil; the mists would pave the way for her escape and cover up
her tracks.

Sure enough, as dusk fell and the starless night sky bled westward,
three hundred Rylnic sailors spilled onto the cobweb of alleys that made
up the city. The canals had turned treacherous in the dense fog, and
indeed they claimed their victim before the crowd even made it to the
tavern. It was the ropemaker's apprentice who, distracted by his own
story, had taken a plunge in the autumn-cooled waters of Partheon. Days
with solid earth beneath his feet were a rarity, however; so cursing and
quivering, the ropemaker's apprentice joined the rest of the group in
the trek to the tavern.

The pub that they had scouted out earlier was a large brewery of three
stories, built in the common fashion of coastal alehouses with wooden
doors that didn't quite close and narrow windows that didn't quite open.
It stood on an intersection of two larger canal-side streets, shouting
urged by the overflowing barrels of pleasure and indulgence leaking
outside.

The steamy cloud of decadence and debauchery flooded over them as they
entered. A crowd already filled the ground floor, stewards and
stewardesses in frilly aprons carrying full and empty pints and steins,
the gurgling of ale and wine pouring ringing throughout the vast hall.

"Upstairs?" Pudger gestured toward the stairs with a tilt of his head.
The two Protectors took the lead with Tharion Rowe in tow. Constance and
McCabe followed her cabinmates upstairs. Just as she was settling in for
an evening of good booze and better company before she would have to bid
her silent farewells, bad news approached the table in the form of a
towering man with silver-blond hair and a winter-cold temperament.

"You are joining us, Lieutenant?" Reese blurted, his astonishment poorly
concealed.

"I am." Caldwell's reply was the scrape of a blade against a block of
ice. "What of it?"

"I --- welcome, I mean. To the supreme council of ultimate gaiety. What
can I get you?"

Caldwell stared at the young man for a spell; but the gods of fortune
were benevolent to bestow upon Reese an approaching stewardess,
interrupting the moment.

"Ale, rye whiskey, and rich wine, stewardess," McCabe said in Myrian.
"Bitter gin and sweet rum. Carafes for the whole table."

*Yes, good, go ahead,* Constance thought. *Drink to your heart's
content, and then some.*

And feast they did, on ale, rye whiskey, and rich wine, bitter gin and
sweet rum.

Two hours into the outing, as the last drops of rich wine trickled out
of the carafe into McCabe's stein, Reese dropped a stack of cards on the
table. "Pirate's Plunder, anyone?"

"I just robbed you penniless yesterday," said Pudger. "You're already
itching for another defeat?"

"In your dreams, Pudge," Reese shot back. "You thought that was real?
Hah. I was playing you, you idiot, all so you would rise to the bait.
Now it's time to reel in the big fish. I'll exact my sweet revenge.
Strike when you don't expect it. Just watch. Alys?"

Constance grinned. *Some pocket change can't hurt, I suppose.* "Sure,
I'll lighten your wallet for you."

"Lieutenant?"

"I do not gamble."

"The good news, Caldwell, is that you don't need luck to win the game.
So technically it is not gambling," said Constance. "The bad news is
that brains are something of a prerequisite."

A low blow maybe, but too high for the likes of Aleksander Caldwell.

"*Lieutenant* Caldwell," he bristled. "Alright. I'll play."

"We play with house rules," Tharion said. "Whenever you challenge
someone's card, you can ask them a question --- not a game question,
mind you. Those are forbidden. Anything else goes."

"What's the point of that?" Caldwell asked.

"We are out drinking, mate," McCabe clapped a hand on the lieutenant's
back; he chuckled as the latter cringed away from his hand, reaching for
his stein instead. "What's the point of that?"

Tharion Rowe handed Reese the deck, in whose hands it became a
fluttering blur. He placed the deck back in front of the yeoman. Tharion
gave it another shuffle for good measure. "I deal first, then clockwise.
Who has the Two of Bells?"

Constance lazily reached to check her dealt hand. Worthless cards, every
single one; but the night was young and skill on her side. "I do." She
took in the people around the table, but this being the first turn,
there wasn't much to it other than the varying levels of gratification
on their faces, pretenses somewhat washed away by the three carafes
already drained. "McCabe. You are stranded on an island with anyone
aboard the *Everblue*; who do you choose?"

McCabe put his card down --- Mistress of Swords. Constance had the
feeling he was trying to convince everyone that he was bluffing; and yet
his eyes sparkled, telling of his good fortune. "Her Highness. She has
the highest chance of getting rescued. My turn. Hmm... Pudger. What was
the last lie you told?"

Pudger revealed his card. "I told Reese he looks handsome."

Laughter rose from the table except Aleksander Caldwell's corner.

"Pudge." Reese took a swig from his drink, wiped his mouth, and pointed
at his bunkmate. "How's your sister?"

"Fine." Pudger revealed another card. "How's your mom?"

"Na-uh. You need to challenge me to ask a question and it's Lieutenant
Caldwell's turn."

"Miss Ravensgard," Caldwell said without a beat. "What brings you to
us?"

Subtlety seemed to be an art too intricate for the first lieutenant. His
cold eyes remained on Constance as she revealed her card, not so much as
a glance spared to check it.

"Meaning?" Constance asked.

"Why did you leave Toll Marre?"

"I got into a bit of trouble," Constance said, reluctance crystallizing
in her bearing. Every head at the table had turned to her, anticipation
fizzing between them; none seemed quite so interested in the reveal of
the card. She sighed, pinching her nose. "I had borrowed some money from
a usurer, but I couldn't keep up with the interest, even though I paid
back the original sum, and then some. He insisted that I pay him back,
and sent men after me. So I left. He would have my hide if I hadn't."

"Who can blame him, really?" Caldwell said. "He just wanted a new pair
of boots, I reckon. Expensive, that snakeskin."

"Yes, quite," Constance said, shooting him a look. "Unlike the fur of
the common rat."

The laughter that came from the rest of the men was of the deflated
kind. McCabe cleared his throat, not so much breaking the tension as
putting a dent in it. "Your go, Pudger."

"Tharion. What is the first thing you'll do once we're back?"

"Go home, of course." Tharion shrugged, his attention on the business of
sorting his cards after revealing his first. "What else?"

"Home to your paramour?" Reese said with a wink.

"Or maybe it's a lucky lad?" Pudger added.

"Why won't you just tell us already, mate?" McCabe finished.

"Why won't you just let this one go already? I've told you multiple
times there's no girl --- there's no lad either, Pudger; don't give me
that look." And yet, for a single moment, a shadowy gleam of sorrow
lined his eyes; it was that succinct, near-illusory moment of faltering
that denied Constance the credulity. The whispers of the lie dissipated
quickly as he took in all the cards thus far revealed, squinting as he
silently and conspicuously mulled over his strategies. "Alys. What's
your worst nightmare?"

"Heaven's sake, Tharion," Reese groaned. "Way to bring down the mood."

The yeoman knocked back his drink, setting the empty mug down with a
dull thud. "You already asked all the good questions."

*What's your worst nightmare?*

Flames rippled against the dark backdrop of Constance's shuttered lids.
A storm of yellow, orange, and crimson, the overpowering heat glazing
her cheeks with soot and sweat. Ghosts of screams rang in her ears.

She forced her eyes open, the austere face of Aleksander Caldwell across
her jerking her back to reality.

"People who take themselves too seriously," Constance said, flashing him
a smile with no fondness within to warm it.

"Alas," Aleksander Caldwell replied with a sigh. "Not all of us can
boast of being such extraordinary jesters as yourself."

"I knew many men in my life who would look in the mirror to see God in
it every morning," Constance said. "How high and mighty were their
headstones."

A twitch marred Aleksander Caldwell's mask of inexpression. "There is
honor in leaving behind a legacy." He leaned forward, his eyes
narrowing. "King Theer. Conan Everblue. Veera of Vorath. Centuries ---
millennia later they are hailed as heroes by those who only exist and
live in prosperity because of them, and the legacy they left behind."

"Men shall erect squares, streets, and statues in your name after your
death, I'm sure," Constance said. She smiled. "Can't wait."

A drowsy stupor crawled out of the corners of the pub as the hours
ticked away. As their steins emptied, the world became merrier with each
sip downed; with each gulp drunk, dizzier, the lights brighter and the
jokes funnier. Tendrils of fog huddled against the few windows, misting
the glass with bleary-eyed longing for the warmth of the hearth and
conversation inside. The jingle of coins adorned hearty syllables
shouted over the din, and the rapt thrill of the ongoing arm-wrestling
tournament swallowed the able seamen's side of the room.

Even the captain of the *Everblue* wore an easy-going smile that had
managed to manifest itself on her face; she seemed surprisingly youthful
now, her copper hair cascading down to her shoulders and her long jacket
shrugged off, her straight temperament tempered by the ale.

Only the first lieutenant seemed unaffected by the merry air of their
excursion. If Pudger was a mountain, Aleksander Caldwell was an iceberg.
He had spent the evening glowering and lowering the otherwise boisterous
mood of the table --- until a few minutes ago when he had made his first
and only attempt at a joke of the night. And just as quickly, the
momentary glimpse of humanity in him had evaporated, when an inebriated
Pudger had lain a hand on his shoulder. For but a moment he had frozen
still; and then fury had sunk its claws in him, and with murder in his
glare, he had excused himself.

And now Constance sat quietly as the Protectors whispered to one
another, the yeoman and the master also away in their own world,
seemingly relaxed at Caldwell's absence despite the departure.

She heard bells in the distance; a hundred tiny bells pealing with a
silvery tinkle. *It is time.*

Her chair scraped against the floor as she stood. Tharion Rowe and
McCabe glanced at her, their conversation paused.

"I will be back with you shortly, gentlemen," she slurred. "I must now
go answer nature's call."

She took no jacket with her, staggering downstairs with the urgency of a
booze-filled bladder.

A cutting chill struck her as she exited the building. Needles of ice
danced across her cheeks and hands, and her breath rose in white clouds,
mingling with the fog. Her freedom unfurled before her on a path of
mist-wreathed canal-side streets and smelled of chimney smoke and damp
cobblestones.

"The Magister's Grip, huh?"

Constance spun about to face the source of the voice. It was a voice
that grated against his words like sandpaper, the kind that fit the man
shrouded in half-shadow like a glove. He was leaning against the side of
the building, his posture at ease.

"I watched you play. A versed cheat. I've never seen someone execute it
so masterfully, either."

"Thank you," Constance said, already turning to leave.

"You made true fools of your friends. What kind of savage does that? And
to do it so mockingly..." She sensed him take a step toward her, her
muscles tensing in anticipation. A wrongness trembled in the air.
Glancing about the empty street, she saw no others in the sorry
illumination of the lamps, the crowds warded off by the late hour and
weather. He clicked his tongue. "What would His Highness think?"

Constance froze. Her breath curdled in her throat as the Toll Marren
words resolved into meaning.

She pivoted in an instant, dodging an arcing blow. Air hissed above her
as his swept past. Her body moved of its own accord, honed by the years.
She came back up and feinted with a punch right before swinging around
for a sweeping kick. The man retreated, and Constance smiled as she eyed
him.

*No weapons,* she noted. *He still wants me alive.*

He ducked as she kicked again. Constance felt her knee buckle beneath
her as he slammed into it, but grabbed him, twisting as she took hold of
his arm. She heaved as her feet found purchase, sending him flying
through the air. He tumbled, rolling to his feet with surprising
agility. Darkness prowled in his glare. Constance\'s smile widened.

*Only one? You insult me, Calron.*

She lunged forward. He spun, his arm slicing through the air; it missed
her neck as she slipped past it. She came up, sidestepping another
attack. She saw his figure shift as he readied himself for an apparent
feint. Her body followed suit, a feint already in motion, her backfist
strike ready to follow --- and then his fist closed around her arm,
blocking.

*What in the ---*

A blur smeared her vision. She turned again, her stance turning
defensive as she watched him rush toward her; and then he was behind
her, her back pressed against his chest, her arm pinned in an iron
grasp. She tried to ram her elbow into his ribs, but his grip was a
vise.

Using his hold as a fulcrum she propelled herself upward, slamming her
head back into his. His grip slackened as a sickening crunch vibrated
against her skull. He recovered quickly; Constance doubled over as his
fist in her kidneys knocked the breath out of her. He struck again, a
blur. Stars speckled her vision as she met the ground, tasting blood.

His bulky figure cast a shadow over her, eclipsing the dim light
trickling out of the pub's windows.

Her body trembling, she braced herself for impact, her ears ringing. The
man moved closer, his features erased by the night. He crouched, his
hands converging on her neck ---

Warm blood sprayed her face, clouding her vision. She felt a sudden
weight press against her; then, just as suddenly as it had come, it
abated as the limp body slumped backward. Constance felt her lungs burn,
her breath growing rugged and shallow.

Pudger towered over her, his sword loose in his grip. Blood dripped from
the pommel down the length of it.

He knelt, placing the large sword softly on the ground beside her. "Are
you alright?"

It was all Constance could do to nod.

The heavy man's gaze shifted to the side, and Reese's silhouette emerged
out of the darkness, pressed against the side of the pub's wall.

"Do you feel extreme pain anywhere?" Pudger asked. "Or numbness?"

Constance shook her head.

"Fingers," Reese said, kneeling beside his partner. "Move them."

Constance flexed her fingers.

"Good," Pudger said. "I'm going to pick you up now, but only if you're
sure you don't feel any back pain or numbness. And you need to tell me
your name."

"I don't," Constance managed. "I'm Alys."

Slowly, gingerly, Pudger placed a large hand behind her neck, and
another under her back; Reese moved to stabilize her lower back and
legs. Their motions were smooth and controlled as they lifted her.

"Can you walk?" Reese asked.

"I think so."

The door opened to reveal McCabe as they eased her down, Pudger's hold
still supporting her. The master's eyes flicked through the scene, his
bushy brows drawing together as he took in the blood pooling about the
crumpled body. "What happened?"

"He attacked me," she panted. "I came out for... for fresh air. I was
feeling nauseous. I thought... fresh air would... help."

A wordless glance passed between the three men; but the sight of her
sprawled on the ground with his hands clasped around her neck should
have provided plenty of proof in her favor. Her hands quivered, her
knees weak, neither of which was entirely a pretense. Her head swam with
every movement, hair matted with blood sticking to her lashes.

"What do we do?" McCabe asked, his eyes still on the body.

"Best we don't start a racket," Reese said. "Do you think you can make
it back to the ship? Pudger can carry you if need be."

Pudger nodded.

"I can," Constance said. "I'm fine."

Reese's gaze swung to McCabe. "Can you find a constable? I'll notify the
captain and make sure no one else catches wind of this."

"Don't touch the body," McCabe said. "We don't want the city watch
thinking any shady business was afoot with a dead citizen in our hands."

"I don't think he was a citizen," Constance found herself saying.

A still of agreement whet with distress fell on the four of them; and
only three words echoed in Constance's mind as they set out toward the
moon-kissed waters of the shore, where the silent ship waited, for the
second time sheathed in the garb of a sanctuary.

*No way out.*

The prince's crescent white grin leered at her from the high heavens.

\*

The stark lines of Death raged in Aleksander's mind's eye.

The outhouse was dark and cold, the water from the simple pump scant and
biting; but full daylight illuminated Aleksander's reality. The single
moment in time that had trapped him repeated itself once and again and
again.

*Boom. Boom. Boom.*

*Gunshot rent the air. Again and again.*

*Blood sprayed. Protector Batari crumpled to the ground. Again. And
again.*

*To the horizon rose teeth-like rows of craggy rock, reaching up into
the heavens. Behind the crumpling figure of Pudger loomed a stone
fountain long out of use, overrun by petrified moss. The statue of a
winged woman astride a soaring eagle cast shadows on the large man's
body as he fell.*

Aleksander Caldwell splashed another handful of icy water on his face.
He knew no longer where the water from the pump ended and the tears
began.

His lungs struggled to keep up, his breaths hitched and shallow. His
hands trembled within his gloves.

*Boom.*

*Gunshot.*

*Blood.*

*Death.*

His mind reeled; the haze that had swallowed the world seemed to have
conquered it too. He could not think, he could not act; only, witness.

This had not been the first time Batari had touched him --- once, the
Protector's hand had brushed against his arm while sparring when he had
rolled up his sleeves in desperation during a particularly hot summer
day.

There had been others he had had to witness twice, thrice, more before
--- some people were worse than others at keeping their hands, their
touch to themselves. And then he would have to bear it again, reliving
once, twice, thrice over what he already had; he would have to steal
another glimpse from time of that which had not yet come to pass. It was
never pleasant, though some were no doubt worse than others.

Pudger Batari's had been one of the better ones. An older man he had
been, sitting on a porch with a cup of steaming tea in his hands when he
had simply closed his eyes as if he were succumbing to an afternoon nap
in the spring sun.

Never before had the visions changed.

Until tonight.

*Boom,* the gunshot rang in defiance.
