---
layout: chapter-template
title: "Chapter 4: A Hunger Awakened"
story_slug: "everblue"
story: "Everblue"
chapter: 7
---

\"What is going on?\" Perched on the floor at the foot of her bed,
Princess Freya Valthorne of Ryln stared out of the window, peering into
the tempest. The waxen light of the room glinted in her eyes as they
turned to Constance, illuminating the fear. "Do I know you?"

\"I very much doubt that.\" Constance closed the door behind herself.
\"But that could be easily remedied."

Outside, the gale battered the ship, petals thrashing. Lightning cleaved
the darkness momentarily before surrendering to it once more. The
princess stirred, pushing herself up and off the floor. "Who are you?"

"A servant, a savior, a friend." Constance bowed. "My name is Alys
Ravensgard."

Freya Valthorne paused, glancing at the door. "Where are Aric and
Dorian?"

"They are... momentarily indisposed. I apologize for the circumstances
of our meeting. I would not have intruded, were there another option.
I'm only here to talk."

Freya Valthorne perked up with a flinch. "What is happening?"

"A cataclysm. We got caught in the area of influence of a particularly
savage storm."

"And the petals?"

Constance paused. "How much do you believe in old wife's tales?"

The princess regarded her through narrowed eyes as Constance took in the
room. It was spacious for a cabin, though otherwise paltry for a
princess's quarters. Appointed with little more than the bare
necessities, the space was cluttered mostly by haphazardly stored books,
crumpled pages, and ruins of manuscript towers strewn over the floor,
constituting telltale signs of boredom.

The *Everblue* trembled again, braying.

"Perhaps we should sit," Constance said. "...If I may?"

Freya Valthorne watched intently as she approached, the tension too
apparent in her bearing. Despite the distress lining her features, she
looked younger than her twenty-two years, her frame slender, her skin
soft ivory. Her peachy blonde hair fell in ringlets around her
shoulders, with no jewels adorning her neck or wrists.

Constance sat down, careful to maintain her distance, and waited.

"You are here to talk, you said?"

Constance nodded, and Freya Valthorne matched her steady gaze, the gears
of her mind clicking and whirring.

"Well then, Alys Ravensgard," Freya Valthorne said, sitting down across
her at last. "Talk."

Studying the princess, Constance sat motionless for a moment, thinking.
Three things were clear.

One, she had just committed several offenses against the ship's captain,
her second-in-command, and the daughter of King Aidin Valthorne of Ryln,
the Silver Sage, Defender of Law, and Protector of Peace.

Two, she did not want to spend the coming months planning her break from
the Rylnic prison cell she had earned herself the moment she'd pointed
that gun at Lieutenant Caldwell's head.

Three, Freya Valthorne was the only person on this ship who could save
her from that fate.

"As soon as we are safely clear of the storm, they are going to come
barging in through that door, looking for me. And this is the tale they
are sure to tell you: I boarded this ship covertly without permission,
entered the captain's cabin armed, and demanded they change course to
avoid the storm. When they refused to do so, I took Lieutenant Caldwell
hostage using my weapon, which I'd stolen from the armory, and forced
them to turn around, effectively hijacking the ship. They will also tell
you that they consequently locked me up in a storage cabin, which I
escaped, and I proceeded to trespass into your cabin by means of
subterfuge. But that is not the whole truth." Constance swallowed as
lightning painted the world chalky white, readying herself. She let her
words hang, dropping her voice to a mere whisper, barely audible over
the war cries of the *Everblue* against the untamed storm. She sighed,
lingering as the princess leaned forward ever so slightly despite
herself. "The truth is that I was also sent here, by Prince Calron
Solgaard of Toll Marre, with the intention to spy on you."

Freya Valthorne sat quietly, digesting the words. Despite her efforts,
the aftermath of the revelation was painted on her mask, on her lips
that parted slightly, on her brows that quivered higher. And yet the
unease that should have crept into her heart was absent from her manner.

"I have been biding my time, trying to find an opportunity to talk to
you," Constance continued. "Unfortunately the storm forced my hand
somewhat prematurely. I was forced to reveal myself to warn the captain
when I realized we were heading directly into disaster. They took some
convincing, as you may have noticed."

The princess blinked at Constance, the trace of a smile playing on her
lips as she listened. "And then you decided that your litany of known
misdeeds was not extensive enough, did you, Miss Ravensgard? I rather
thought blathering was somewhat counterproductive to espionage --- the
point, in fact, is to keep your mouth shut, is it not?"

"Oh, on the contrary," Constance said, letting her own smile break
through. "I think, in this particular case, blathering has been
exceedingly productive."

"And how is that?"

"Consider what I am telling you for a moment. You should know
high-ranking officials such as myself are privy to much. Not only to the
inner workings and secrets of his palace, but also to the secrets Calron
amasses about his peers. And I don't doubt that you know how extensive
his intelligence network is. My point is this." Constance leaned
forward, uttering each word with precision, trying to find the killer
spot as she delivered each blow. "I think, your Highness, we can help
each other."

And then she saw it, the spark of interest flickering to life, a hunger
awakened. The rest of her face remained a mask, but the curiosity that
streaked through her eyes was unmistakable. Yet she sat there, waiting,
for more. "What could you possibly help me with?"

"Toll Marre likes to keep tabs. I know the capabilities and the numbers
of every nation, the strengths and the weaknesses, of their armies and
their rulers. I know the discoveries Calron has made, political *and*
arcane."

"And you would tell me these things?

"I would."

The edges of Freya Valthorne's lips quirked up, and she smoothed over
her skirt with a hand before her forest-green eyes found Constance
again. They glinted as the scales of her mind seesawed, weighing the
words whirling in her head. "You make a lot of promises, Miss
Ravensgard. But you must agree it is quite convenient for you that we
are stuck here, in the middle of the ocean; and you could tell me all
manner of made-up drivel, and I would be none the wiser without a way to
confirm your stories."

*She is better than I initially gave her credit for,* Constance thought,
the realization rousing and irksome all at once. "Like the incident at
the royal laboratories a few weeks back? When a harmonic resonance tube
blew up during an experiment to amplify the thaumic emissions of a
spectral shard, if I recall correctly? But you were, in fact, personally
present at the laboratories when it transpired, weren't you?"

Constance saw the words strike as the bright light flashed, piercing
through the shadow cloud swarming against the window.

At once, Freya Valthorne stiffened, vexation bleeding into her
countenance. "What of it? That is hardly a state secret."

Constance exhaled slowly, her mind racing. Each moment that extended
this conversation tilted the scales of likelihood away from her favor.
As the conversation meandered, Freya Valthorne was poised for an easy
victory, coaxing out what few secrets Constance kept under the guise of
suspicion and disbelief. The minutes ticked past, the door to the
princess's cabin threatening to swing open at any moment. Constance saw
but one choice before her: to convince the princess before then.

*Okay, then. I will give you what you ask. More.*

She leaned forward, whetting her blade. "I could do more than that." And
then, she struck. "I could take you to Aeron's Circlet."

The carefully, deliberately smothered hint of a smile, the princess's
eyes widening ever so slightly --- in all this, Constance saw her take
the bait.

"And you would have me trust a spy who defects, as easily as that?"

"I suppose I would, yes," said Constance. "After all, why expose my
game? I could just as well have lied, and told you I only boarded your
ship because I didn't have any money, and I needed to leave due to some
trouble with some troublesome folks, and I did what I did out of
desperation. I\'m not sure how convincing my case would have been, but
I'm sure you would have felt more comfortable trusting me than you do
now. So then, is it not a safer bet to assume that I am honest about my
intentions? That my loyalty lies with you?"

*Game over,* Constance thought. *Let's hope the house does not come to
collect.*

"Tell me this one thing," the princess said, though her very cadence
admitted defeat. "Why?"

"Why?" Constance cocked her head. "Prince Solgaard have had our
disagreements in the past, but none so important that I considered such
a thing. Until now."

"What has happened now?"

Constance let the silence seep into the space between them. She glanced
at the darkened windows, avoiding Freya Valthorne's gaze as she spoke.
"He betrayed me."

And for a moment, the princess and the thief sat in the peace of a pact
newly formed, the *Everblue* now a rocking cradle in the abating storm.

"And so I lay my fate at your feet and beg for your mercy," Constance
concluded. "There you have it, your Highness. What will it be?"

"I suppose I could let you entertain me for a little while," said Freya
Valthorne with a sigh. "I was starting to get bored."

\*

A light drizzle needled the sea, tinging the returning rays of sunlight
with a damp gray. Rain, seawater, and sweat dripped down Kendra Thorne's
face, and slipped off her sodden jacket.

She stood on the forecastle deck, legs tense from the strain of keeping
balance, palms raw from gripping the railing. Down below, her crew
worked the sails and the rigging, urging on the jaded ship. They had put
up a commendable fight, and because of that the *Everblue* still braved
the waters, sailing proudly away from the awful storm.

Death knocked on the door no longer.

They had left the perimeter of destruction behind by several fathoms
now, put enough sunlight and safety between themselves and that roiling
nightmare. Like a release of breath long held, the heavens were now the
winds that swelled their sails, a great beast tamed, its roaring
dwindled down to wailing whispers.

It had come on so suddenly, sparking from sluggard inertia to a promise
of disaster within moments. At the snap of a finger, the weather had
turned, unheralded.

Save for the petals. The petals that by now had collected on the weather
deck, soaked and trampled, a mushy heap of spoiled color.

Kendra frowned. She had gambled, ignoring the anomaly, disregarding the
very thing that went against all she knew to be true about the wind. And
she had almost doomed them all.

It had been a close call, even caught by the very fringes of the storm
as they had been. And had they sailed on just a bit further before the
turn...

She felt her frown deepen as she turned her gaze to the misty horizon.
The girl. Somehow, they had been harboring a stowaway for who knows how
long --- a *dangerous* stowaway who had singlehandedly taken the
lieutenant hostage and hijacked the ship. One who had listened to the
petals' riddle, and known the answer.

Captain Kendra Thorne was a woman wrought of iron. But standing there,
under the rain, thinking of the implications, she could not help but
shiver.

She descended the steps, walking past the helm to the portly man
bellowing orders by the mizzen mast. "Master McCabe, take over."

The man simply nodded at the captain before departing to take her place
on the quarterdeck.

Thorne met the tired eyes of Lieutenant Caldwell, who stood by the helm
with his hands behind him, a picture of propriety considering the
circumstances. "Come with me, Lieutenant."

The tall man fell into step beside her. "Are we going to see *her*?"

"In a moment. There is one other thing to take care of first."

Lieutenant Caldwell had bound the young woman's hands and locked her in
a storage room. They *would* get to her, though a headache flourished at
the mere prospect of it.

*Later,* Thorne told herself, focusing on the crisp brine in the air,
the perfume of the rain-kissed sea to clear her head. *Do not worry
about that now.*

Damp air wrapped around them as they descended into the bowels of the
ship, the maze of corridors conquered by the shadows, daylight banished
by the battened hatches. The ship creaked tenderly beneath their boots.

The door at the very stern of the ship remained closed, revealing
naught. And the guards, Kendra Thorne noticed with a spike of
foreboding, absent.

*Maybe she ordered them inside, for protection,* she thought; yet there
was a new quickness to her gait as she stepped up to the door and
knocked.

"Come in."

Shooting the lieutenant a warning glance, Captain Thorne opened the door
and entered the princess's cabin.

Princess Freya Valthorne was settled into her armchair, her smile
pleasant as she welcomed them. If the storm had woken fear and
apprehension in her heart, no traces of it lingered on her mien now.
And, from her perch on the princess's ottoman, stared back the young
woman who had taken Lieutenant Caldwell hostage.

The man was quicker to draw his pistol than Thorne was to speak.

"That is highly unnecessary, Lieutenant Caldwell," Freya Valthorne said,
and in her voice sang the faintest panic. "There is no need to be
inhospitable."

Thorne jumped forth, her fists tightening to mirror her chest. "Your
Highness, this woman took Lieutenant Caldwell ---"

"--- hostage? I am aware."

"But, your Highness, we locked her up. She has escaped her confinement
and then incapacitated your guards to enter your room. She is
*extremely* dangerous."

The princess regarded the captain for a moment before speaking, her
words now composed and deliberate. "Miss Ravensgard has perfectly
reasonable explanations for why she did what she did, which she has been
kind enough to offer me. Lower your gun, Lieutenant Caldwell."

"But your Highness---"

"*Lower your gun, Lieutenant Caldwell.* An order."

His eyes found Thorne's as he lowered his gun, the weapon still unslung
in his shaking hand. The tension in his stance remained unchanged, his
body a taut cord ready to snap to action.

"Have either of you you told anybody about Miss Ravensgard's...
transgressions?"

Thorne shook her head. "The storm left little room for chitchat."

"Good," Freya Valthorne said, relaxing into her chair. "Then let us keep
it that way. For all intents and purposes, Alys Ravensgard is a fugitive
who sought shelter with us, whom I have happily welcomed with the
intention of providing safety and support. You are able to find
sufficient boarding for Miss Ravensgard?"

"You don't mean ---"

"But I *do* mean, Captain Thorne."

The sharp edge flashing in the princess's tone cut through the
forthcoming protest, decorum smothering the sparks of annoyance. Thorne
felt her back straighten, suddenly aware of the weight of her uniform on
her. *Consider not this uniform earned,* Admiral Hain had said as he'd
pinned her graduation medal on her chest, *simply because you are
allowed to wear it. Each day that you don this uniform anew is another
day you must serve it. Only then does it serve you. Only then are you
worthy.* She nodded slowly. "Yes. The maids' quarters are overfull but
there might be some officer's cabins with sufficient room."

"Excellent." Princess Valthorne smiled. "I trust you will accompany Miss
Ravensgard to her new lodgings once the arrangements have been taken
care of, Lieutenant. Until then, we will be happy to enjoy each other's
company. You are excused."

Thorne gave the princess another nod and bowed before turning to leave.

"Oh, and I hope everything is in order now? Are we safely on our course
once more?"

"Yes, your Highness. Everything is perfectly in order."

"Excellent. I commend you on your mastery, Captain Thorne."

"Thank you, your Highness."

With that, Kendra Thorne exited Freya Valthorne's cabin with the
lieutenant close behind her. She felt the rigid floorboards striking
against her heels, the tightness of her chest as she pulled away. The
woman's --- Miss Ravensgard's face smirked at her from her mind's eye,
watching the exchange with a vaunting smirk painted on it.

"Captain Thorne," Caldwell called, sounding as frustrated as Kendra
felt.

"What is it, Lieutenant?"

"Are we simply going to go back to our posts?"

"Yes, Lieutenant. Your shift is not over yet, is it?"

"But ---"

Kendra Thorne stopped short, pivoting on her heels. The words gushed out
of her, spilling like a great wave that had just crashed against the
*Everblue's* mighty hull. "But what, lieutenant? What should I have done
instead? What would you have had me say?"

The man let the pause grow into silence, the gun still ready in his
hand.

"She is our sovereign," Thorne continued. "Whether or not I agree with
the decision, whether or not it feels like the world has just turned
upside down and I am the only one who cannot navigate the skies. I do
not understand anything that has transpired in the past couple of hours.
But I do understand this. Princess Freya Valthorne is our sovereign.
Daughter to the king. *Our* king. The one whose service we are sworn to.
And we do our duty, Lieutenant. Or are you not the man of duty I know
you to be?"

Chagrin crossed his pale green eyes, yet his lips parted. "I do not
trust her."

"You did not find it charming when she pressed that gun against your
head?" she chuckled dryly. "Good. Neither did I. Keep an eye on her, and
close."

Lieutenant Caldwell only nodded.

"Now, go talk to Rowe to find the girl a bed," she said, then glanced at
his hand. "And put that gun back in its holster. You heard the orders.
We keep quiet."
