---
layout: chapter-template
title: "Chapter 3: Petals"
story_slug: "everblue"  # Matches the "slug" from stories.yml
story: "Everblue"
chapter: 4
---

Trouble came riding over the horizon.

The moon chased the sun back to its western sanctuary, once, twice, then
again dusk after dusk. The *Everblue* chased the waves, chased by the
wind in turn. And deep in her bowels, a shadow lay in wait. The phantom
of the Everblue inspired no legends of disembodied footsteps, of open
doors that should have been closed, no myths of the menacing silhouette
lurking in corners.

Lost in the perfect backdrop to her guise, a royal warship bustling with
activity, Constance slipped into the damp cracks between the tar-coated
planks that made up the ship, hidden, unknown. What food she stole from
the kitchen was chalked up to generous rations; what uniforms that
disappeared went unnoticed. She kept out of people's way, sidestepping
cautious eyes and risky encounters.

Nobody came looking for the trespasser who had damaged the wall. The
young man who had punched it, as it turned out, was the first lieutenant
of the ship, second in the command chain. As such, the matter was
swiftly resolved, the hole patched up with little commotion. And so
Constance remained a mere phantom, biding her time until the next port.
But trouble was quicker to show than the port.

It started with a flower.

The colossal ship was lazing the day away, a sluggish beast that took
much coaxing to make little progress, carving its serpentine path
through the waters. Constance, attired in a hand's stolen uniform, was
sweeping the deck, hiding in plain sight from the keen-eyed Ensign
Heathcliff. His inspection patrol had backed her into a corner, and
finding her planned way out blocked by a crowd, she'd had to take the
only other available exit --- up the companionway and right onto the
weather deck. Now, she waited as she always did, watching out for the
right moment to disappear down the warren once more. She waited, her
head down, back turned, and eyes on her broom, keeping out of mind if
not out of sight.

She almost missed it. A sole petal whirling in the wind, a drop of red
against the endless blue of the world, against the blue seas and bluer
skies. Like a prized possession that the wind clung to with the fervor
of a fixated five-year-old, towing it along wherever it went.

Almost. It barely scratched the periphery of her vision, but the single
speckle of red stood out singularly from the rest of the scenery. The
petal danced before her, delicate and fickle like butterfly wings.

*No. No. No, this cannot be.*

Watching it flutter away, Constance dared to hope. Surely, this was but
an unlikely curiosity, a stray petal stolen by the wind from its rose on
a nearby ship. And for a minute, her hope lingered, staying afloat with
Constance clinging to it for dear life.

A second petal, red as the ripe Twelvetide holly just outside
Priscilla's place, red as the butcher's hands after the slaughter,
followed the first.

*From the same flower,* Constance told herself. *A lucky coincidence, is
all there is to it.*

The third petal told another story. Not red like the last two but
yellow, bright like the gold capes of Calron's men. Constance's heart
dropped. She stared numbly ahead as the trickle flourished into a steady
stream. Petals drifted past the ship, fleeing from one horizon to the
other. It gushed past, ever faster, ever richer, an eddy of color and
once-life. *Against* the wind, it flowed, against all reason.

She watched the spectacle, harkening to its wicked song.

*No.* Images flashed in her mind's eye, images from times long past.
Remembrances raked at her consciousness, trying to break through the
gates of their prison for the forgotten. Her broom clattered to the
floor and rolled away, but she only stared at the tempest, momentarily
only the husk of a person.

The crew was too distracted to notice anything off about her. A
congregation of parted lips and held breaths, they had put their own
duties on hold to gape, like a man entranced by the glimmer of the sword
about to bury itself in his chest.

They will notice, Constance told herself. Surely, they will notice. They
are sailors. The wind is their patron. Their livelihood. Their staff of
life. They have to notice.

But the minutes passed, and the *Everblue* sailed on, headstrong, right
into her doom.

Constance made quick work of the ratlines, ascending with catlike grace.
In the commotion caused by awe and wonder, nobody glanced at her twice.
Far ahead, the horizon, now obscured by the swarm of petals, played the
siren luring its prey in. Too familiar the sight. Too familiar the fear.

They could still make it if they turned now, put enough distance between
the ship and the disaster that awaited them just beyond the tempest of
color.

Constance glanced at the quarterdeck. It remained empty, Captain Thorne
hidden away behind the closed doors of her cabin. *Get a move on,
woman.*

Perhaps she could find a way to alert them without revealing herself.
Down the ratlines into the gathering crowd, she went, picking a spot
near an older midshipman.

"Against the wind," she said. "They're moving against the wind."

"Fascinating, no?" He didn't even glance at her.

"Fascinating? It's dangerous."

He chuckled. "Dangerous? What, flower petals? Besides, whatever is
causing this, it's not affecting the sails. As I said... fascinating."

Constance moved along to stand beside a younger petty officer. "We
should turn south. Circumvent the source."

"In this wind? No way. The captain would sooner eat her hat."

"Well, has anyone asked?"

"If she would eat her hat? No." He nodded toward the captain's cabin.
"Lieutenant Caldwell is in there right now."

Constance waited. Minutes ticked past without a sign from the captain's
cabin, minutes during which the Everblue glided lazily toward disaster.
Desperation spilled out of Constance in breaths ever shallower. She
scanned the crowd --- and there, by the forecastle deck stood Mate
McCabe, a thickset man with black hair bound at the nape of his neck and
a perpetual easy manner about him. Third in the ship's hierarchy, he was
a man Constance had avoided like death.

Constance wove through the crowd, making her way to the man. "There is
something very wrong here, Mate McCabe. This is dangerous."

"Dangerous? You're right. Like my grandma used to say --- carry no fear
in your heart, Biscuit, but of one thing. Florists."

"Look at the wind. The petals are moving strangely. We need to turn
away. South. North. West. Anywhere. Anywhere at all, but we need to get
as far away from the source of this as we can."

He paused, glancing sideways at her; and she slipped into the guise of
an ordinary seaman, infusing her bearing with subservience as she
received his regard. "The captain doesn't seem to think it will cause
any trouble. And it has not so far. Do not trouble yourself with this,
sailor. Go back to your post."

"But ---"

"Orders, sailor, from your superior." His easy manner retreated for the
briefest second; then he relaxed, one large hand clapping her on the
arm. "Don't you worry. Everything is under control. If Captain Thorne
says it's safe, it's safe. Now, run along, back to your duties."

Constance walked away from the man, the tide of frustration rising
within, glancing about the deck, looking for a way out. She saw none.

*No way out.*

If she could just pause and think... But disaster drew closer second by
second, petals raining past the colossal ship, robing the blue world in
all hues of the world. The siren sang on, and the *Everblue* listened.

No time. They might never make it away in time if she waited any longer.
One way or another she would have to reveal herself, Constance realized.

There is little point in hiding from the dead.

She shouldered her way past the crowd, climbing the stairs to the
forecastle deck two steps at a time, and walked right into the captain's
cabin.

It was a brightly-lit room with high windows, though sparsely furnished.
Lieutenant Caldwell stood by the large table in the center of the cabin,
looking down at a map. Captain Thorne, her back turned to the both of
them, was silhouetted against the light pouring in from the window,
gazing out. Though the woman's back was turned to Constance, her face
hidden by the copper curls cascading out of her captain's hat, Constance
saw an edge to the way she held herself.

*She's perturbed,* Constance thought. *I can work with this.*

Caldwell's gaze snapped to Constance as the door closed behind her, in
it the perplexed mist of unfamiliarity. Thorne followed, turning to
glance at her, hawklike honey eyes honing in on the intruder.

"Who ---"

"Someone you need to listen to," Constance interrupted.

Lieutenant Caldwell, who was standing several paces closer to her than
the captain, took a step toward her; Captain Thorne raised her hand,
cutting his path short.

"Turn," Constance said. "Turn south, Captain Thorne. *Right now.* You
are heading for disaster. The petals --- I know you've noticed."

The woman regarded her, deliberate silence sinking into the room. "They
are rather difficult to miss."

"Not *that*. I know you are an intelligent woman, Captain Thorne. The
direction. It does not make sense, does it?"

"Captain---"

"A moment, Lieutenant." Thorne cocked a brow at Constance. "What of it?"

"You're sailing right into the storm. If you do not turn the ship around
now, none of us will make it out alive."

Thorne took a step forward, a cat ready to pounce. "Who are you?"

"I'm sure you're good enough at your job to know that if what I'm saying
is the least bit true then this is a conversation to be had later."

But Thorne's eyes instead darted to the pistol on her belt. "Is that
---"

"Yes, fine, I stole it from one of your officers. Whatever. Look, we
don't have time for this. I promise I will explain everything later.
Just. Turn south. Now."

Taut stillness spanned the chasm between them, a cord about to snap.
Constance waited, mirroring Thorne's gaze, hoping. Praying.

"Lieutenant," the captain said at last. "Detain this woman."

The tension thawed, but did not evaporate; instead, it crashed into
Constance, a wave of frustration and despair, cold, wrathful,
overwhelming. She unslung the pistol as the lieutenant approached, an
odd hesitance in his quick steps.

"I don't mean you any harm," Constance pleaded.

Thorne did not budge.

"Please, Captain Thorne. Save yourself. Save your crew. Save your ship."

And then he was on her, and Constance found herself without another
choice.

She sidestepped him as he reached for her, her heel meeting the back of
his knee with practiced precision. His leg buckled and she turned, right
in time to close an arm around his neck, the pistol in her other hand
digging against his temple. "*Turn south, I said.*"

Lieutenant Caldwell leaned against Constance awkwardly, the height
difference in his favor. Yet the man showed no sign of resistance, his
form too rigid in her grip, his dread bleeding into her, mixing with
hers. His skin felt cold against hers, the blood pumping in his veins
too loud, too quick beneath her fingertips.

Thorne flinched.

"No," Constance warned; and the captain stopped, every muscle in her
slender body visibly tense. "You don't leave this room. Raise the flag.
South. Give the command, or I pull the trigger."

\*

The ship rocked underfoot, heaving over the waves as it turned. Outside
on the weather deck, color bled from the sails as the petals were freed
by the changing angle. Inside, the captain's cabin darkened as the
petals pattered against the windows. Shadows flickered and fluttered,
bubbling like the brewing tempest.

Lieutenant Caldwell sat before Constance, shivering, gloved hands locked
behind his head where she could see them, the pistol pressing between
his shoulder blades. The captain's amber eyes remained on the intruder.
The quiet seethed with cold fury and fear.

Constance crawled through the seconds. They crystallized and congealed
into one another, thickening to the tar-like quality of dreams,
condensed and imprisoning. Calamity beckoned on the horizon.

"Congratulations," said the captain. "You've just won yourself a forever
stay in a cozy little prison cell."

"So you've made abundantly clear," Constance said, her gaze on the view
of the shifting sea. Not long now. Once the Everblue was safely out of
harm's way she could sit back and untangle that knot of troubles. For
now, the dance of the petals kept her rapt and commanded her worries.

"Who are you?" Caldwell rasped.

"Me? Your savior," Constance said. "But pray to your god you never know
it to be true."

"By the seas, you are mad," Thorne said. "You have no idea the quagmire
you walked into, just so you could play hero for a while---"

Constance's jaw clenched. "I'm not ---"

"--- in your head that's screwed on all wrong ---"

The *Everblue* lurched, her creaking timbers squashing the discourse.

Constance fought to stay on her feet, righting herself just barely. The
chair before her toppled with a loud crash, leaving the lieutenant
sprawled on the floor. Constance looked up to find the captain standing
several feet from her previous position, her face partially occluded by
the shiny barrel of the gun pointed at Constance. The pistol clicked to
life.

Constance froze, her gaze snapping back to the window. Then, all at
once, the world dimmed. The pattering petals lashed the glass, a
frenzied flock of carrion birds, whipping wings and pecking beaks. The
ship groaned, a mighty beast stricken. The winds howled, pleading. All
around them, things insensate awakened, and all but begged for mercy.

Constance met the captain's eyes, and lowered her gun. "Go, Kendra. They
need you."

Thorne blinked. Amidst the emotions battling in her regard, the
confusion and the rage, Constance saw a hint of resonance.

The ship lurched once more, and Kendra Thorne stumbled, though she
managed to keep upright. Seconds stretched on once more as the woman
considered her, then the lieutenant, before turning her attention back
on Constance again. Then, she lowered her own weapon. "Detain her,
Lieutenant, before you join me on deck."

With that, she prowled past them and out of the cabin, determination in
her gait.

Constance said nothing as Caldwell recovered himself, turning on her
with the icy brutality of a storm. His eyes, which Constance could now
see were a pale green, betrayed little, the hardness to them exceptional
in a man of his age and stature. She simply handed over her stolen
weapon, and let the man bind her wrists together with a piece of scrap
cordage.

Nobody paid them any heed as he led her out of the cabin into the rain,
the only color mottling the gray seas and the grayer skies the petals
adrift in the quickening wind. Even the blue sails of the ship and the
navy coats of the sailors, now soaked through, had dulled to shades of
indigo and midnight.

"Shorten sail!" Thorne's voice boomed through the din of the storm. The
deck swarmed with the practiced frenzy of the seamen as they moved,
climbing the masts and securing loose gear. "Batten down the hatches!"

Caldwell and Constance moved through the precise machinery of the crew.
The companionway by the stern remained open still, and she let the
lieutenant usher her down the ladder, descending it with agility despite
her bound hands. He followed, landing on the floor right before the
hatch sealed shut overhead, dimming the noise.

They stood in relative silence for a second before he shepherded her on,
barely touching her. He did not need to. She complied, walking as
steadily as she could, a mere step ahead of him. When, at last, he
stopped before a narrow wooden door in the bowels of the ship, so did
she. The lock rattled and clicked as he inserted the key, hinges
creaking as the door opened. Without a word, Constance stepped inside.
The smell of misuse, must, and damp wood enveloped her as the door swung
shut, the lock clicking back into place.

In the lightless, pressing quiet of her holding cell, Constance finally
sighed, relaxing.

The hull vibrated and groaned as the towering waves battered against it.
Shimmying out of the wet rope binding her wrists, she stood, pressing
her freed hands against the walls. The raging storm outside gave her
momentary shelter, but as soon as they left the storm behind, she knew
Thorne's men would be on her. It would take a few miracles to stay
hidden until the next port, now that they were alerted to her presence.

Slowly, methodically, she felt her surroundings, thinking as she worked,
ignoring the dull, familiar pain in her collarbones.

*Being locked in the pitch dark somewhat limits my options,* Constance
thought. *Priority number one.*

A pick or a match could have solved at least one of those problems, and
her jacket pocket would have provided both. But the jacket lay discarded
in a pile in the hold, offering no aid.

She was a stowaway. That much was clear. And with a single, desperate
move, she had antagonized both of the two highest-ranking officials on
the *Everblue*.

*Well...*

Shelves covered the walls of the tiny storage room. She groped in the
dark, combing the store for a box of matches or a gas lamp. Sheaves of
parchment, heavy cans, and locked boxes crowded the shelves, offering
little.

Thunder rent the air, reverberating through the hull. The shelves
clattered, spitting out their contents onto the wooden floorboards.
Pressing her back against the door to avoid being hit by stray supplies,
Constance kneeled to stabilize herself. The *Everblue* seesawed and
groaned as the rain and the wind assailed her.

At last, the ship righted itself, and Constance crawled forward,
exploring the debris. Cold metal, splintered wood, and broken glass
dotted the sea of paper. She raked through the mess, careful not to cut
her hands on the jagged edges.

Her hand closed around a tiny metal tin barely bigger than a snuffbox.
It was not locked, but a simple latch kept the contents from breaking
free. She reached in; a hiss escaped as she withdrew her hand, pain
shooting up her fingertip. With her other hand, she felt for the piece
of metal that drew the fresh, warm blood, smiling. A fishing hook.

*Excellent.*

Cringing with hot pain she twisted the hook free, and jammed it into the
lock. The door responded eagerly to her finessing, creaking open into
her freedom. Constance leaped to her feet and out the door.

Abruptly she stopped and turned to take another look into the room, now
suffused with the sliver of light coming from the corridor. She tore a
scrap of cloth to bandage her finger with, plucking an officer's cap on
her way out. She climbed the ladder to the upper deck, wending her way
to the very stern.

Two guards stood watch outside the cabin, though the nearby passages
were otherwise unoccupied. With no hesitation, Constance crossed the
corridor, closing the distance.

"What are you two still doing here?!" her voice boomed. "Are you deaf?
All hands on deck, you dunces!"

"But---"

"Go, you imbeciles, before Caldwell notices your absence!"

With a single, panicked glance shared, the two men scrambled away,
leaving Constance alone in the corridor. She stepped up to the wooden
door, drew in a deep breath, and knocked.

"Come in."

"Apologies for the disturbance, your Highness," Constance said, entering
the princess's cabin. "But our business is somewhat urgent."
