---
layout: chapter-template
title: "Chapter 5: Bargains and Bedfellows"
story_slug: "everblue"
story: "Everblue"
chapter: 8
---

The lieutenant returned for Constance as the last embers of the storm
died out, smothered by the dark cloth of the coming night.

From its perch, the sickle moon brewed its plots, grinning down at the
world. Twilight marked the beginning of its reign. Its pale light crept
in through the window of the rearmost cabin of the *Everblue*, where
more plots were being stirred over brewed tea. Steam swirled languidly
in the lamplight and shrouded the two figures in the room in the bitter
aroma of black tea cut with peach and almond.

The knocks that disturbed the young night were succinct.

"Come in," Freya Valthorne ordered, setting aside her cup of now-cold
tea. The hour had thawed the tension, and now she spoke with an airy
aloofness, her eyes hazy with the mist of distraction. The gears in her
mind whirred and ticked almost audibly as she weighed every word,
sifting out lies and looking for truths.

The door opened to reveal none other than First Lieutenant Caldwell, his
hair waxen white in the odd light of the lamp, his pale green eyes
glowing strangely, and the mist cleared as the Valthorne girl's
attention snapped to the man standing in the doorframe.

"The arrangements have been made?" the princess inquired.

"Yes, your Highness. Unfortunately, the servant's quarters are occupied;
but we were able to free up some space in the cabin used by Yeoman Rowe,
and Protectors Batari and Rivenko."

"Excellent. I trust you will show Miss Ravensgard to her new lodgings."
Freya Valthorne turned to Constance, smiling as she stood up. "We shall
dine tomorrow night. Till then, I hope you will find your accommodation
suitable."

"I look forward to it," Constance said sweetly. She got to her feet,
bowing to the princess before exiting the cabin.

"After you." Lieutenant Caldwell waved for her to go ahead of him. "And
no funny business."

The shadows were even more prevalent in the corridor, the darkness only
punctured by islands of dim luminescence. Shadows, which, until a few
hours ago, had harbored Constance and kept her safe. After so many days
in the dark, the limelight that shone on her was blinding. Disorienting.

"Scared, lieutenant?" Constance snickered, noting with amusement the two
guards standing watch at the mouth of the corridor. "Worried I will
*take you by storm*?"

The man said nothing, treading quietly behind her.

"Ah, you did say no funny business. My apologies. I shall henceforth be
completely serious."

A constricted sigh was his sole response.

"And who are the lovely gentlemen I am to be sharing my living quarters
with?"

"Yeoman Rowe, and Protectors Batari and Rivenko."

"You, sir, are quite the chatterbox."

"I do not *chat* with criminals."

"I apologize for the stunt I pulled today. I only did what I did because
it was necessary. Surely, you understand."

The Lieutenant withdrew into his cold silence, his single-word
directions the only disturbances to it as they navigated the maze of the
*Everblue.* He wore it like armor, this silence, donned alongside his
shield of sobriety, his sword of arrogance. A man seemingly deserving of
his reputation, or at least the vague notion of it Constance had accrued
from the stray pieces of conversation caught on the sea breeze. A
whisper in passing, a joke overheard through a thin wall, unfolding the
tale of the ship, unraveling its puzzles word by haphazard word. They
painted the picture of a man fated to die a lonely death.

"This is it." He knocked the same precise knock she had heard only
minutes ago, and a slice of light spilled out as the door cracked open
to reveal the cabin.

It had no windows, but was small enough for the three lamps inside to
pool together, providing decent illumination. Four hammocks hung from
the low ceiling, the three chests stashed underneath the only remaining
furniture inside. An aisle separated the two sets of hammocks, which
amounted to all the stepping space there was --- stepping space that was
entirely occupied by two men.

Though clad in the same white fitted trousers and starched button-ups
with golden cuffs, the two men looked nothing alike. One towered over
the other, his close-shaved, blonde head brushing the low ceiling, his
eyes narrow and ocean blue; next to him, dark eyes stared out of an
angular face framed by unruly brown curls. A third man sat upright in
his hammock with his legs dangling, tossing an orange.

"This is Yeoman Tharion Rowe," Lieutenant Caldwell said, pointing at the
man in the hammock. The yeoman gave a small wave of his hand, his smile
genuine. "And these are Protectors Batari and Rivenko."

"Just Pudger," Batari said, his voice not the rumbling rockslide
Constance expected it to be.

"And I, His Imperial Majesty, Lord Protector of the Most Noble Order of
the Shadows." Rivenko caught Pudger's sideways glance, a smirk forming
on his lips as he shrugged. "Or, you know, just Reese."

Lieutenant Caldwell cleared his throat. "If you need anything..."

"You would love nothing more than to be my most ardent and eager slave,
I know," Constance cut in.

"...do not *steal* it. I am sure Yeoman Rowe here would be pleased to
provide assistance."

She turned to the others as the lieutenant left, eagerness to leave
apparent in his brisk steps, grinning. "He is joking."

"Right," Reese said slowly. "Lieutenant Caldwell, the jokester, that's
what we all call him."

Constance smiled. "I think we might get along just fine."

"You should come in," the yeoman said, setting aside his orange
momentarily. "And you two clods should get out of the way."

In a single deft motion, Reese jumped into his hammock, the timbers
creaking as the sling swayed, groaning under the burden despite his wiry
frame. No such option existed for Pudger, who instead shuffled awkwardly
out of the cabin. A glint of metal caught Constance's eye as he did. A
crossguard. The large scabbard hung at his side, the pommel thicker than
her wrist.

"So you two are... Protectors?" she asked, entering the freed-up cabin.
"What exactly does that mean?"

"Means I get to make sword go *swoosh,*" said Pudger.

"He's darn good at it, too," said Reese. "I'm the wraith in the night,
the whisper in the wind, the master of stealth."

"And I do the paperwork," said Tharion.

Constance smiled as she made for the one hammock not in use, the one
beside the yeoman's.

"We'll move a chest here tomorrow for your... belongings," he said.

"Ah. I should probably go take my little stash of... borrowed clothes
before they think to confiscate it."

"Borrowed?" Pudger asked.

"I suppose Lieutenant Caldwell wasn\'t exactly joking."

"Mark me shocked," Reese said with an express lack of shock.

"We can probably arrange something, if you need anything. He was also
not joking about that. On the books... off the books..." Tharion winked.
"You know, I happen to know the yeoman pretty personally."

She chuckled at that. "They told me the servant's quarters were full. It
seems like I lucked out."

"Indeed. Between the three of us, this is the safest cabin on the ship,"
said Tharion. Then, he threw; Constance reached one arm out in reflex,
her fingers closing around the sphere just in time. "Plus, you get an
orange."

\*

From the high windows of the captain's cabin, Freya watched the
foam-capped waves beating at the hull. They swirled and frothed, lapping
at the ship before eddying away, day in and day out, relentless.
Unyielding. Unchanging.

The princess fidgeted absent-mindedly, playing with her nails as she did
when working on a problem. *A puzzle. That is all this really is. Just
another puzzle.* Yet it gnawed at her mind, mocking. Unlike the logic
exercises she was used to dealing with, made to be worked out by
following a clear chain of deductions, and always uniquely solvable no
matter how carefully designed to hide as much truth as possible within
others, this problem had too many hidden variables, too much wriggle
room for wrong assumptions. The sweltering heat made her thoughts stick
together, adding to the problem.

*Fact number one,* she thought, for what felt like the hundredth time.
*Alys Ravensgard boarded this ship at the latest in Toll Marre.*

They had not berthed since Toll Marre, so this was an easy enough
conclusion.

*Fact number two: Alys Ravensgard introduced herself as Calron
Solgaard's spy.*

Too little information to reach a satisfying conclusion, so she stowed
this away to return to later.

*Fact number three: Alys Ravensgard knew about Aeron's Circlet, as well
as my... mishap in the laboratories.*

The latter, while not entirely newsworthy public knowledge, had been a
public enough incident for it to matter little --- something Freya had
to remind herself not to grind her teeth about; yet the former... Even
if one did not assume Alys Ravensgard knew about Freya's interest in the
circlet, it was hardly inconsequential. And to think that it could have
been such a lucky shot in the dark...

Freya closed her eyes against the headache edging closer. Already she
could feel her thoughts getting fuzzy again, lost in an endless tangle
of implications.

*And if she speaks the truth...*

The knock on the door pulled her out of the honey-like ooze of her
thoughts. "Yes?"

"Your guest is here, your Highness."

"Good. Send her in." Freya turned and strode over to the large table in
the center of the room, which had been cleared of maps and navigation
instruments, the weathered wood decked with a fine cloth and silver
tableware. Not quite the dining venue she was used to, but the captain's
cabin still offered the most pleasant space for a private conversation.

The door closed behind Alys Ravensgard, clad in a simple shirt and
breeches, her hair pulled back into a braid. A single day had passed
between that first step she had taken into Freya's cabin, the dark
shadows cast by the raging storm outside melting off her in the eerie
candlelight. The unfamiliar lines of her face had danger etched into
them, a darkness prowling in her gaze as it fell upon her. Now, bathed
in full daylight, she looked youthful, innocent even.

"Your Highness." She bowed, her posture deferential without seeming
awkward, a practiced bow that was neither offending nor ungainly. *Used
to the presence of kings.*

"Miss Ravensgard, thank you for joining me." Freya gestured at the
table, drawing back her own chair. "Please."

Alys followed suit, perching on the chair across from Freya as the door
swung open once more, servants laden with silver trays filing into the
cabin. "Thank you for the invite."

The trays heaped with their steaming banquet were promptly placed on the
table, mulberry wine poured from the carafe into their goblets. Fresh
bread, wild rice pilaf, and truffled mashed potatoes accompanied the
bowls of soup set before them, a dish of pickled beans taking center
stage.

"Cream of asparagus, your Highness," announced Elen, the portly chief
cook of the *Everblue*. "We have prepared a main course of grilled cod
with herb butter and stuffed potatoes, and summer pudding for dessert,
followed by fruits and roasted almonds."

"It all sounds great, I'm sure you have done an excellent job as
always." Freya turned to her guest, who was watching the exchange with
no trace of emotion, her bearing neither tense nor relaxed, steeped in
perfect indifference. "How are you settling in? We have been
accommodating, I hope?"

"Indeed. Captain Thorne was kind enough to find me a place in the
quarters of Protectors Batari and Rivenko, and the yeoman, Tharion
Rowe."

*Protectors Batari and Rivenko...* thought Freya for a moment, trying to
conjure up faces to match the names. *Ah, yes, the bulky blond man and
the gaunt-faced boy.* Her would-be security detail, if she ever were
permitted off the ship. But, of course, it had never come to that. *I do
not even know who my guards are... This is ridiculous.* She felt that
familiar flame rekindle, chagrin spreading in her stomach like wildfire.
She had jumped at the opportunity to go to the summit, bright-eyed with
anticipation in the weeks leading up to their departure, days and nights
of ink and parchment bleeding into one another in preparation. A pupil
to be babysat no longer, but a princess representing the crown of Ryln
to the leaders of the world, a world which she had now seen.

The irony of it stung the most. All her hard work that she thought would
be the key to her freedom waved away by the manicured hands of the
leading, she had been forced to sit pretty for a week while the tensions
grew and grew, she herself rendered voiceless by the indifference of the
powerful. *Sit and watch, little princess, while we go at each other's
throats. Just because you can sit at the adult's table does not mean you
can eat the food.*

And the world that she had for so long yearned to see? The door to it
shut in her face and locked away by her father's orders, unbeknownst to
her.

*I'm sorry, your Highness,* Thorne had said, unmoved by her protests.
*Your father stipulated that it is too dangerous. I cannot go against
his direct orders, nor should I wish to.*

"Enjoy your meal, your Highness."

Freya blinked, whisked away from her thoughts as Elen bowed, waiting to
be dismissed. "Thank you. You are dismissed."

Cream of asparagus slid down her gullet in a scalding trail of flavor,
tempering the wildfire. The gloom that had accompanied her back onto the
ship still smarted, her parting gift from the summit in Aldovar, that
soup of frustration and disappointment that had been boiling within her
ever since, seasoned with the knowledge that she had achieved nothing,
any hope of change smothered. And as soon as the *Everblue* berthed at
the Rylnic capital, her life at the palace would resume as was, all her
work belittled, all her words trifled with.

Except...

*Except I have one more chance,* Freya thought, glancing up at Alys
Ravensgard. *One* last *chance. And she is sitting right before me.*

"And you have fared well with them so far?" Freya asked. "Your
cabinmates, I mean?"

"Ah, yes. Not that we have had much time or chance, of course; but they
were all very welcoming."

Freya studied her for a second, turning the facts over in her mind.

*Fact number four, I do not know if anything she says or does can be
trusted.*

A little unsound, as far as *facts* went; but Freya was willing to make
an exception.

*Fact number five, I do not need to trust her.*

Information, as much of it as she could extract, was all she needed from
the Ravensgard girl. Logic would take care of the rest.

*Fact number six, I need her to trust me.*

Regardless of whatever truly lay at the heart of this tangle of
questions, the lower Alys's guard was, the better.

"It must have been quite the contrast, must it not?" Freya smiled.

"Contrast?" Alys paused, her spoon of soup stopping mid-air.

"To go from the captain and lieutenant to your cabin, I mean. Thorne and
Caldwell are excellent soldiers both, but they are hardly the picture of
a warm reception."

The corners of Alys Ravensgard's lips twitched, sparking a jolt of
triumph in Freya. "I suppose not. But let's not forget that I *did*
hijack their ship. I am hardly the picture of a polite guest."

"I disagree. It is my ship more than it is theirs, and I can only thank
you for what you did. In fact..." Freya reached for her goblet. "This is
why I invited you tonight, to celebrate the hero who saved us all. To
you, Miss Ravensgard."

For a moment, Freya thought she saw Alys go stone-still; it melted away
before Freya could etch it into her mind, leaving her wondering if it
had been a trick of time or something more. "I am no hero. I merely
pointed out the obvious."

"Fair enough. But you spoke up and warned us, even though you knew what
trouble it would get you into. That took courage."

"Courage, or desperation? Besides, does only courage a hero make?"

"Perhaps not. But the point stands that we only turned around when we
did because of you." Freya turned her attention to her plate, markedly
casual as she dined and talked at once. "Speaking of which, how did you
know what was awaiting us? Even the most seasoned seafarers aboard were
too engulfed in the spectacle to notice the storm."

Consideration settled into Alys's features, and Freya saw the weathered
gravity at odds with her youth return to her demeanor. "I heard a story
once."

Freya let the silence seethe into something wanting, something that
itched. She felt it scratching back at her, imploring her to end it.
Alys seemed to display no such discomfort, her motions slow, her
inaction deliberate, aloof as ever. *Information is her currency, and
she is hesitant to spend it.*

"Calron... Prince Solgaard has quite the fascination with magic," she
said at length, tugging at Freya's excitement. "But we will have plenty
of time for fairytales later."

"Fairytales?" Freya echoed. "You don't sound convinced."

"Oh? Is the Rylnic princess suggesting there might be more to the world
than facts and logic? Is that not treason or such where you come from?"

"Something to that effect," Freya said with a small smile. "But I would
still like to hear the story."

Alys shrugged after some consideration. "You know of the Riders?"

"The Three Riders of Doom? But, of course. It is one of the oldest
surviving legends mentioned in sources from multiple continents."

"And how much of the legend do you know?"

"Beyond the '*of doom*' bit? War, Calamity, and Death all descend upon
the world every so often to exert their influence; and when they finally
descend together to roam side by side, that will mark the end of all
mankind."

"Not inaccurate, for the most part," Alys said at length. Night lurked
behind her eyes. "It is War and Calamity, who will greet Death in this
realm, the ever-present wanderer. The Three Riders of Doom shall meet on
a hill and unleash utter ruination upon man. When War's sword is swung
once and never more, when Calamity's last petal withers to dust and
ashes, then shall Death at last cede his reign."

The hush that suffused the room was a pregnant one, heavy with the
burden of implications. A shiver crawled down Freya's spine despite the
heat as she found herself staring at the woman seated across. The blue
cast of the falling night had deepened the features of her face, adding
to the shadows cast by her tale.

"*Calamity's last petal,*" she breathed. "You are not suggesting..."

Alys gave a slow shrug. There was that weight to her manner again, yet
no mar of sorrow, only the hard, lifeless apathy of mountains. "I'm not
suggesting anything. Your Highness is free to come to her own
conclusions."

Freya let out a drawn-out breath, feeling her thoughts congeal once
more.

"There is more poetry to it, of course, as is often the case with
ancient myths," Alys continued. "Twilight of final reckoning, a trail
blazed with endings, seeds of destruction sown beneath Death's steps...
you know, the like. But, in essence, that is all."

Petals. Riders. *Doom.*

Freya's mind reeled from the echoing words, its gears and cogs
momentarily frozen in place. The careful and rigorous machinery was
smoking, filling her mind with a thick fog.

*Stop.* A single, feeble voice in her head commanded, a dim light deep
in the mist unable to illumine anything but itself. *Shake off your
stupor. It is unbecoming.*

Freya blinked, trying to focus.

*Fact number one. Alys Ravensgard boarded this ship at the latest in
Toll Marre.*

*Fact number two: Alys Ravensgard introduced herself as Calron
Solgaard's spy.*

*Fact number three: Alys Ravensgard knew about Aeron's Circlet, as well
as my mishap in the laboratories.*

"It was Prince Solgaard who told you the story?" she asked, returning to
her grilled cod and stuffed potatoes. "How did you come under his
employ?"

"He likes to study these things," Alys said. "I was working as a scribe
under a duke when I was approached by a high-ranking operative, who
implored me to join the training program of the Bureau of Shadows. I was
transferred to his personal division after the Academy."

"And how long did you work for him?"

"Six years. I still work for him, technically speaking. I have given him
no reason to believe I have changed loyalties, even after what he
did..." she trailed off, her quick glance at Freya suggesting she had
revealed more than intended.

The princess did not let a smile touch her own lips, carefully burying
it. "You said he betrayed you."

Alys nodded, her gaze on her plate as she sniffed, remaining quiet. *Try
a different door,* the voice in Freya's mind offered.

"You must have interesting stories, having worked as a spy for six
years. Did you travel much?"

"Some," Alys said. "I worked quite closely with Prince Solgaard, so my
presence was required often at the palace."

"You know him well, then?"

Alys shrugged. "How well any man can know Calron Solgaard, I cannot say.
I had, however, considered him a friend for some time by the time I
departed."

"It must have been difficult."

"In some ways. Renouncing a friend is seldom easy; even harder is
betrayal. In others, though, I knew could no longer stand with him, so
the predicament was not one of uncertainty. And betrayal is somehow made
a lighter thing to bear when it is repayment in kind."

"Whatever he did must have been unforgivable to you, if it is as you
say."

Alys shrugged again, the wall she had once again hit emerging before
Freya's mind's eye.

*Keep going. Any piece of information you learn is a new card for you to
play.*

"Your Rylnic is excellent, by the way," she tried. "Where did you learn
it?"

"My grandmother on my father's side was Rylnic."

"Oh? Have you ever been?"

"I can't say that I have."

"I will be honored to show you part of your heritage, then." Freya
reached for her goblet for the second time since they had begun dining.
"To new horizons."

This time, Alys followed, raising her own goblet in return. "To new
horizons. May they prove more prosperous than the ones we leave behind."

Freya only smiled.

\*

The watch shop ticked and tocked and ticked and tocked, ever onwards
through time.

Nicola sat at his workstation, humming contentedly as he worked. A ship
on the sea of seconds, he let the tide of time drag him, a subject to
the whimsy of minutes. His hands moved without error, springs and wheels
woven together in immaculate balance; about him, the shop paced in
perfect accord. A thousand watch hands in concert kept count of the
moments of the morning. There was no dissent in the minutes.

The song of ages filled the space where the watchmaker practiced his
craft, his masterwork at endless vigil. Unswayed by the wayward ways of
men, it was Time which subjugated princes and paupers, brought kings to
their knees as they did their vassals. It was the Wild Matron that
passed the judgment, it was Death who claimed; but Time was the one
which paved the path. The eternal blade that did his bidding under the
rose, day after day consigned into oblivion. No talisman could ward it
off; no wit of man withstood its truth.

The watchmaker with the heart of a priest paused abruptly, his steady
hands frozen in place. He lowered his turnscrew as his gaze slid to the
Karstadti grandfather clock opposite the door. The clock itself stood
careful watch --- the offending motion came instead from the little
piece hanging from it, its delicate chain slung around the finial. For
decades it had hung there, untouched, motionless, its dial unchanging;
now, he could see its sole hand creeping eastward ever so faintly.

He removed his spectacles and stood up, approaching the device with
burgeoning intrigue, his mind whizzing and whirling with every step. His
mortal eyes were errant, his mortal mind defenseless against hope; and
thus were his movements prolonged by doubt and hesitation. He held the
tiny gold sphere and his breath as he counted, the ticking and tocking
of his shop his truth and testament, his gaze unwaveringly peeled on the
hand.

The hand that had frozen in its spot pointing northwest for decades
crept toward and past the northernmost index, not stopping.

For a brief moment, Nicola stood there, blinking at the dial. Then, with
a sudden burst of motion, he stepped away, casting a ready look about
the shop before crossing back to his workstation.

*Preparations, then.* He glanced at the door, and he smiled. *Welcome,
your Grace.*
