---
layout: chapter-template
title: "Chapter 6: Partheon"
story_slug: "everblue"
story: "Everblue"
chapter: 9
---

The foghorn sounded once more, its deep call reverberating through the
hull of the *Everblue*.

Constance stood on deck, leaning against the starboard railing, watching
the crew. The mist hung thick over the waters, like the ghosts of men
lost to the sea. It curled about her, its tendrils cool on her skin, a
quiet, shifting presence, watching, prowling, waiting. Its eerie silence
shrouded the mighty ship. The creaking of the rigging, the wind sighing
through the sails, the deck lamps groaning on their hinges echoed
strangely, amplified by the lack of other sounds. There was no sun to
glint off of belaying pins and crew's pistols, only ambient light spread
thin over the deck. There was no horizon to promise another thousand
miles of blue vastness.

The *Everblue* crept onward, with nothing but the crew's remembrance to
bear witness to the existence of a world beyond.

*No way out.*

"Reduce sail!" Captain Thorne's voice penetrated the silence briefly,
heavy with the weight of command.

Motion trickled up the masts as her orders drifted down the quarterdeck.
The wind carried the sound of rustling canvas as the sails were furled,
their rippling now eased. The quiet grew by another measure.

Constance's eyes were drawn by the navigator as he ascended the steps to
the quarterdeck, his compass in one hand, a few sheets of scribbled
notes in the other. Their words were muffled by the more oppressing
sounds as they conferred, but Constance did not miss the Captain's nod
as she cast an eye over the notes, nor the newfound zest with which the
navigator crossed to a deckhand by the mainmast. The boy scaled the mast
with ease, and the news was promptly relayed to the lookout perched on
the crow's nest.

A sense of alertness sprang to life within Constance. *Could it be...*

Captain Kendra Thorne signaled to the boatswain, who snapped to
attention, ready to receive orders. "Sound the lead lines!"

Constance's heart quickened. Over on the leeward side, the weighted line
was heaved overboard, whirring as it cut through the air. A dull thud
sounded as the deck vibrated underfoot.

"Twenty fathoms and lessening!"

She lightly pushed herself away from the railing, her mind already
singing with new machinations.

"All hands prepare for landfall!"

Landfall.

The smile that touched Constance's lips had an eager twist to it as she
descended the companionway two steps at a time.

"Aric." Constance nodded in greeting. "Dorian."

The guards outside the princess's room shared a glance as she
approached, shuffling with some measure of worry to block the door. It
had to do with their last encounter, Constance supposed; she drew up
short before them, her stance unswayed yet at ease.

"The princess does not wish to be disturbed," Aric managed.

"This is rather important, I'm afraid."

"Her Highness was very explicit in her request. She does not wish to be
disturbed."

"Her Highness would much rather hear this, I'm sure."

"Your request for an audience will be relayed at the first appropriate
time. Until then, I suggest you return to your post, Miss..."

"Ravensgard." Constance paused for a moment, regarding the young men.
"If this is about the other day, gentlemen, let me set your hearts at
ease. I did not mean to cause you trouble. However, as you see, I had
some very urgent business to see to. Something about saving the ship and
everyone on it from imminent destruction..? I apologize for the measly
part you had to play therein."

It was Dorian who addressed her this time. "We were ordered by
Lieutenant Caldwell not to let anyone through. Good day, Miss
Ravensgard."

Constance sighed. "Why don't we make a deal? You simply tell the
princess I wish to speak to her. If she refuses, I will leave, and
perhaps she will be annoyed to be disturbed; but Her Highness is not one
to make a fuss out of such things, to my knowledge. If she is not
inclined to refuse, however, then it is not my ire you will suffer for
not asking her first."

Aric glanced over at Dorian, who was still studying her with suspicion
in his gaze. At last, he gave her a nod with little amity, and Aric
visibly relaxed, relieved that he would not have to make the decision
himself. Dorian's knock was reserved, but the Valthorne girl was quick
to respond. He shut the door behind him before Constance could espy her.

"So, Aric," Constance said with an offhand tone. "How's the guarding
business?"

"It's okay," Aric said. He paused, shooting her a look. "For the most
part."

"Again, sorry about that."

Aric remained quiet, so they regarded each other for a moment in uneasy
silence; it was interrupted by the door opening again to reveal Doric,
his expression marred by defeat. "You may enter."

The princess was perched on her chair, reading a book she did not look
up from as the thief entered.

"Your Highness," Constance bowed, her greeting punctuated by the door
closing. "I apologize for disturbing you. I have a small matter to
discuss as we are making landfall."

"Landfall?" Freya Valthorne's eyes remained peeled on the page, though
her brows rose slightly. "It was high time. Where?"

"Partheon."

"Ah."

"You do not seem terribly thrilled. Will you not be going ashore?"

"I... No." A faint touch of chagrin shadowed her tone, as placid as she
was otherwise. "I shall stay in my cabin."

"I see," Constance spoke slowly, carefully, her expression a mask of
confident indifference. "There is someone in Partheon. Waiting for me.
He is supposed to be my contact."

Freya Valthorne looked up at last, meeting Constance's gaze. There was
little subtlety to her scrutiny, deliberation sharp in her eyes of
forest green.

"Prince Solgaard has operatives stationed all across the coast,"
Constance continued. "So we agreed that I would report to him from
scheduled stopovers."

The princess gestured at the chair opposite herself, unmoved. "Sit for a
moment."

*She wants me at eye level,* Constance thought; she complied, lowering
herself into the seat just as she had a week ago.

"An operative of Calron's is waiting for you to contact him in
Partheon?"

Constance nodded. "Two bells. That is all I need."

Hesitation was plain on the princess's face. "And you could not just
tell him later that things did not go as planned in Partheon, but your
mission is running smoothly otherwise?"

"They will know we made landfall. If I don't make contact, he will
suspect that I have run into trouble with you, at the very least. Or
that I have betrayed his trust." Constance lowered her voice. "Calron is
an intelligent man, your Highness. And a cautious one. He is more useful
to us both if I still have his trust."

They sat in wordless, stone-still combat, the invisible cord between
them growing taut. Constance held the princess's stare, the watchful
spark of brilliance in it twinned by the reflection of her reading
light. She could feel the dissection of her bearing, of her words, of
the facts as the Valthorne girl's mind skimmed through the
possibilities, trying to decide the best game move. Displaying too
little worry would arouse her suspicion, indicating a trap. Too much
worry, and the power balance would shift too strongly in Freya's favor.
Letting through just enough, Constance waited for the verdict.

"Two bells, you say?" Freya asked, her words weighted with the awareness
that the turning point was impending, and they were the stepping stones
leading up to it.

"Two bells."

Then, at last, Freya Valthorne sighed, turning to the window awash with
white mist and naught else. "You will take your cabinmates Rivenko and
Batari with you for your protection. We would not want anything untoward
happening to you while you are under our protection, would we?"

Constance's smile was small, unveiling only a fraction of the triumph
that glowed within. "Your protection is much appreciated."

There had been no horizon for the city to bloom out of. Instead, it had
simply appeared in the fog like the beginnings of a sketch, faint lines
and slapdash colors. Now, the city bustled about Constance, too loud,
too varied to ears accustomed to the sigh of the wind through the sails
and the splashing of waves. The cawing of the gulls echoed off the
cobalt waters, mixing with the deep growl of the waves pounding the
shore. To noses dulled to brine and tar, and sharpened to all other
scents, it was an onslaught, its air redolent with sweat, shit, and
smoke. The stench of opportunity.

Constance loved cities. A hundred pockets passing by every minute for
easy pickings; a dozen banks and gambling houses at every corner for the
daring and the brilliant.

A hundred ways out winked at her at every turn.

"So, what did you say you needed to do?" McCabe asked.

They stood in the dockside square, Constance and her retinue, Pudger to
one side and Reese and McCabe to the other, watching the milling crowd.
The mountain of a man moved with the gravity one would expect from his
size, with dormant power lurking beneath every measured movement. His
close-cropped pale hair seemed nigh on silver in the mist, his presence
a bulwark to circumvent. Reese juxtaposed him as always, his slight
frame an easier obstacle at first glance. Yet Constance felt all too
keenly his itinerant, restless eyes, wandering, scanning, raking through
the scenery. The eyes of a hawk. Underneath that boyish trouble lay a
carefully hidden spark of brilliance, a dangerous combination.

"Some chores for her Highness," Constance said lightly, starting toward
the main avenue heading inland. "Shall we?"

*Follow the crowds,* her instincts offered.

This was it. She had hitched her ride out of Toll Marre, negotiated her
safe passage, and now, it was time to bail. Any day she spent aboard
would be another inch closer to trouble, her bluffs strained more and
more with each turn. When the time for reaping came, she would not have
anything to show for the false seeds she had sown.

*A moment's lapse in caution. That is all I need. That is all it takes.*

And it would have to be executed to perfection. She would have to elude
Reese's muscle and steel and Pudger's watchful eyes, plus Lieutenant
Caldwell who was following thirty paces behind and, Constance guessed,
supposed to be incognito. She could afford neither the attention of her
entourage nor the Partheonian city watch.

One moment to step into the shadows. She could do that, for the shadows
were hers. And she would weave herself a new life. A new life not unlike
the one before. She would be safe from Calron, untethered by false
promises, new allegiances in the making. She might even find herself a
new prince.

Abrupt tumult snapped Constance out of her thoughts, and she nearly lost
her footing as she was knocked back. She recovered quickly, her deft
feet finding purchase of their own volition. The crowd parted as abrupt
tumult interrupted the regular commotion of the busy avenue, pulling
Constance along.

Now, her instincts whispered. She made for the surge of people rushing
past --- and a wall rammed into her, blocking her path. Pudger.
Constance collected herself, slipping into the guise of a disoriented
woman who had just been borne away by the mass of people.

"Halt!" a voice cut through the confusion, snapping her Rylnic friends'
attention away. By now the crowd around her had stopped to watch the
incident, trapping her in, her back pressing against the giant man.

Only several steps ahead of them, a head began to rise out of the crowd.

Four uniformed men shouldered past nearby. Mist curled around metal as
one drew his short sword and raised it. "I command you on behalf of the
Council of the City of Partheon!"

The figure rose above the crowd to reveal a boy with dark skin and
woolly hair, attached to his back an awkward contraption that extended
along the back of his arms.

"Get down!"

The boy became airborne.

"Shit." Constance felt a large hand pull her back as Pudger swore.

Up above, the boy seesawed back and forth as the guards drew close, a
shared look of puzzlement on both their and his faces.

The market square became utterly still for a moment, time stretching and
compressing all at once. Then, a flash of a grin, and the boy darted
away.

The chase took off once more. The crowd shuffled as the guards struggled
to carve their path ahead. The boy zipped farther and farther away from
the men. The collective breath held by the eyewitnesses present stirred
not a dust mote. Victory itself seemed to beckon him.

He gained speed, and shot upward, looping in the air. Once. Twice. A
sporadic cheer broke through the still crowd. Gleeful laughter escaped
his dark lips.

Then, as suddenly as his glory, he jerked up, down, up again. The
whimsical flight gave way to erratic movement as mischief did to
distress.

Then, with a presaging fizz and fume of smoke, he began to fall.

The guards provided an effective cushion, proving just as effective at
swiftly detaining him. There was no resistance on his part, only a timid
smile as they took him away.

"Old wife's toils," McCabe said with a shrug as the crowd began to move
along once more. "Never ends well."

"What do you mean?" Constance asked.

"It doesn't matter," McCabe said. "Best we move along."

Hundreds of arteries plaited through the city in narrow streets and
broad avenues of water, its canals dotted by keel traffic. White and
blue façades gilt with gold dominated the cityscape, glistening twofold
in the rippling reflection beneath, distorted by the fog. The stunted
buildings and carved roofs left no space left for shadows to gather. And
behind the close press of the city loomed a massive glass structure ---
half-aqueduct, half-ruins, its uppermost conduit lost to the mist. The
stream spilled in a rumbling cataract, feeding into the canals that
meandered through the city.

"Where are we headed?" Reese asked this time.

Constance pointed at the broadest avenue, one of the three prongs of the
river that scattered into the hundreds of tiny channels. "We follow the
main avenue for a while."

Cafes and shops lined the canal-side streets, emitting cozy scents that
carried out the jumbled drone of conversation as they opened and closed.
Drifting barges taxied passengers alongside the crowd, display windows
enticing prey with glimpses of delicacies and fineries.

Constance kept her eyes peeled, waiting, biding her time for the right
moment. The stream of people was regular enough for her to disappear in
it, the fractal city a perfect backdrop with its interspersing streets
and narrow alleys.

Yet she did not feel Reese's roving gaze stray too far for a moment, and
the hulking Pudger remained right beside her, his sword at his side as
always. A back exit, perhaps, if she could convince the three men to
wait outside one of the many shops and establishments.

Rylnic words cut through the bustle of the street. "My friend, your
timepiece..." The group of four stopped in their tracks, turning to the
source. A well-dressed gentleman was stepping out of The Endless Watch,
his eyes on McCabe. He was a tall man, with light eyes and a dark
mustache, his spectacles rimmed with gold filigree and cut with pearls
on the temples. "It needs repair, yes?"

The first mate chuckled, reaching into his pockets. "Afraid not. I
bought this last..." He trailed off as he clicked his watch open, his
brows drawing together. "Huh."

"Come in, come," the man beckoned. Rylnic flowed easily on his tongue,
though accented. "I will fix it for you. And perhaps you see something
to your liking."

McCabe cast an uncertain glance in their direction. Reese shrugged, and
Pudger voiced no complaint; the watchmaker flashed McCabe a knowing
smile as he led him inside. Constance followed. Pudger brought up the
rear, the shop door closing behind him, and stood there, blocking the
exit.

*Great.*

The noise of the city did not trespass into the shop, warded by the
ticking and tocking, not a single one off-beat. Constance felt her
breath hitch as she took in the room.

The room was large, its circular walls painted a dark blue accented with
gold and dark wood. Above, a domed ceiling stretched out, from which
brass lamps were suspended, crafted in the shape of stars, varied in
size. An orrery took up center stage, light dancing on the metal as it
moved. An upstairs gallery ringed the space, guarding the shop's only
windows, though there seemed to be no stairs leading up to it. And
though it was high noon, as displayed by the thousands of timepieces
filling this peculiar place, the light that streamed in through the
glass cast all inside in the wan light of the moon.

"Sit, sit. Time is of the essence." The watchmaker gestured toward the
couches across his workbench as he took McCabe's watch. "Bad joke, huh?"

The first mate took his offered seat; the rest of them remained
standing.

"I am called Nicola," the man said as he, too, perched into his chair.
"Please. Feel free. This should take not very long."

Constance took his encouragement to take a few steps into the room.
Display cases were aligned against most walls, standing clocks rearing
their sage heads above them. Polished metal glimmered brightly on beds
of dark crushed velvet, jeweled bezels and mother-of-pearl inlays
twinkling as the hands moved.

A pang of guilt grew heavy in Constance's heart as she thought of her
watch. Had it ever made its way back into Gus's hands?

*I should have said goodbye.*

"You speak our language well," McCabe said. "Where did you learn it?"

"I taught myself," Nicola replied without lifting his gaze from his
work. "I have much time on my hands."

Constance strode further along the walls as the man chuckled at his own
terrible joke, eyeing the watches. The pocket watches gave way to
clocks, the collection increasingly less conventional. There were
sundials and hourglasses, water clocks and silver bells. A crescent on a
white sphere glowed faintly, the rest of it cast in shadow. A sphere
with six nested rings moved like an orrery, curved lines etched onto
each orbit, the outermost one turning every second. Counting down
instead of up, Constance realized. "This one. What is it counting down
to?"

Nicola's smile touched his words as he answered, though Constance's back
was turned to him; and she had the distinct impression that he wore it
always. "I suppose we will find out, will we not?"

She walked onward. Little statues played their parts, sceneries moving
according to the hour. Twelve horses on a carousel rode on forever. A
chessboard stood on a table, seemingly abandoned mid-game; and it was
only by chance that Constance caught a piece move, commanded by no
player.

"The game changes every day," Nicola said absently.

"How?"

"I do not know. I am not so good at the game, admittedly."

Three riders on a hill looked down on a city, the sun high in the
heavens.

A shiver crawled down Constance's back. The air went taut for a moment,
as though time itself was rippling about her; and the deep toll of bells
pealed in her mind.

*It is a craftsman telling a story,* she thought to herself. *Nothing
more.*

She turned away, her mind scanning the scene, desperate for anything
else to hold onto. A single small sphere caught her eye, displayed in a
case all on its own. She stepped up to it, drawn to it by curiosity and
desperation in equal measure.

It was a gold watch on a chain of gold ivy, its case chiseled with
curving lines, layers of cogs visible through the dial. Beautiful, no
doubt, though not too far of a cry from a timepiece, unlike some of the
other pieces filling the shop. The hand, at odds with the perfectly
precise ticking and tocking that filled the shop, remained unmoving.

"This one is broken," she found herself saying.

A moment's silence, a moment that felt as though it lasted longer than
the other moments; and then the ticking and tocking returned, and wood
scraped against wood in the direction of his workbench. The watchmaker's
steps were quick as he approached, his affluence apparent even by the
sound of his soles against the floor. No poor man's shoes sounded quite
so assured.

"You have a good eye," he said. "Only, it is not broken, Miss. Lost,
perhaps."

Constance drew back as he produced a key and unlocked the case.

"How strange," Nicola said, a suggestion of heartache in his voice. "It
is for those who know what they seek." He picked it up gingerly, like it
were a withering thing and he too afraid to condemn it to dust at his
touch. "And just perhaps... perhaps, you have found it. Then it needs to
find in turn."

There was a sadness in his eyes as he beheld it. He seemed almost...
forlorn; and then Constance felt the press of cold metal against his
fingers as he placed it in her palm, closing his hands around hers.

"Keep it, Miss. I have had it for too long, as time can attest."

He held her gaze for a second, and time bent to prolong the second
again; and then the man was striding away from her, proffering McCabe
his watch back already, a renewed zest in his step. "There, friend. Good
as new."

*For those who know what they seek...* Constance stared at the gift, her
thoughts hazy.

"Anything else I can do for you?"

"Thank you," McCabe stood. "We shall be on our way."

"It was nice, meeting you," Nicola said as he accompanied them to the
door. "Perhaps we meet again in the future. Time will tell. Until then."

The busy avenue swallowed them once more as the door shut behind them.
Constance stood in the fog, her mind no clearer. The watch hand remained
unmoving.
