---
layout: chapter-template
title: "Interlude"
story_slug: "everblue"  # Matches the "slug" from stories.yml
story: "Everblue"
chapter: 6
---

Harmony Day commotion ruled Lysgade Row, an oversaturated spectacle
bustling with the midday crowd. It was a procession of excitement and
noise, merchants' rants and raves distinct among the droning hum that
hung in the air like mist. Pedestrians shouting at carriages and
footmen's retorts rose from the stream of frills and lace, pomp and
perfume. The heart of Toll Marre's shopping district beat along to its
chaotic yet familiar rhythm.

Constance stood outside Beaumont's Tea Emporium, talking to Beaumont
himself. His waiters dashed in and out of the shop, carrying trays of
steaming china.

"Oh but truly, Beaumont, you are something else." She giggled airily,
touching his arm with a light hand. "You are doing the city a great
disservice by keeping your craft locked in such a small space. The best
tea sommelier in Ashazar deserves so much more than this cramped room."

"Ah, you flatter me, Lady Genevieve," the man said. He smiled, drawing
himself up despite himself. "I am but a humble man with a passion for
the flavor. I have no greed for more fame, nor a claim to greatness."

"Nonsense," trilled Constance. "This entire building should be yours.
It's the least you deserve. Say, who did you say owns the upstairs
apartment?"

Constance smiled coyly, waiting for the man to bite the bait. She had
spent the better part of her morning casing the joint at Lysgade Row,
chasing leads. There were whispers of Archduke Ganders having rented a
residence for his paramour, and if the woman fit Ganders's bill, the
alleged apartment would be ripe with items itching to be plucked by
Constance and friends. Other news told of Penny Jax keeping some of his
coin in the backroom of a bookstore. The search for the latter had been
largely unsuccessful; Ganders's mysterious lady, however, had led her to
12 Thistlewood Lane, Lysgade Row, a bright yellow building with an
artisanal teashop on the ground floor.

"That would be Baron Veenstra. He does not use the property, though, but
instead rents it out."

"And..." Constance trailed off as a passing carriage rolled to a swift
stop before them. It was a black carriage, newly lacquered though not
overly ornate, suggesting a middling nobleman.

The tea merchant turned an anticipatory gaze on the vehicle,
straightening his collar as the door swung open. The passenger leaned
out of the opening, though he did not step out of the carriage, and
Constance felt a surprised smile bubble its way to her lips.

"Would the lady care to join?"

Constance arched a brow at the young man, meeting his deep brown eyes.
"And where would we go?"

"To the end of the world, if that is your wish," he said, matching her
smile. "Or we could ride around the nicer part of town. All the same to
me as long as I have the pleasure of your company."

For a second she considered him, ignoring a gaping Beaumont right by her
side; then, gathering her skirts, she took his hand, and let him help
her into the carriage.

"Worry not, Beaumont, I shall return for you tomorrow," she said,
seating herself into the bench across the young man, who closed the door
and settled back into his spot, signaling the driver.

"My Lady Celeste, how generous of the gods that we have crossed paths
this lovely day. What a pleasure it was to spot you on the sidewalk as I
drove past."

"The pleasure is mine," Constance said. "Vale, was it?"

The edges of his lips curled up ever so slightly, delicate as a
butterfly wing. "Your recollection is correct, my Lady, but today I
profess the name Rijnst. I am a humble lord who makes a living operating
a textile mill. Wine?"

Constance plucked the proffered glass out of his hand. "It seems you
molt like a snake, my Lord."

He knocked back his drink. "You might say that." He set his drink aside.
"Then again, perhaps you wouldn't. Snakes haven't the tendency to
slither back into their discarded hide. I, on the other hand, must
return to the charades. A costume, if you will."

Her gaze caressed his features as he spoke, soaking in his loveliness.
If she were younger, she would have described it as an unearthly beauty.
Yet now she could see just how *earthly* his beauty was, and all the
more impactful for it. He had the hands of a musician, nimble and
slim-fingered, his choice of rings subtle and unobtrusive --- bands of
gold etched with intricate patterns, but otherwise unornamented. His
too-large ears, the slight asymmetry of his nose, did not take away from
his allure but added to it.

"And who is the costume for, if I may ask?"

"Why, me, of course. Does an actor not put the costume on for himself
just as much as he does for the audience, if not more?"

"I suppose," Constance said. "So today you fancy yourself... a textile
merchant?"

"Are we all reduced to our means? Today I fancy myself a man who is so
lucky as to have the company of a beautiful woman." His leg brushed
lightly against hers; and though she did not let it crack her veneer,
she felt it, the all-too-familiar flutter beginning to stir within. "One
that a man named Vale has not been able to get out of his mind, as was
prophesied. But never mind that petty fool."

Against her best efforts, Constance felt heat rising to her cheeks. Vale
looked out the window, and she beheld him, sipping her glass of wine.
*Trouble*. It was in the way his lashes brushed his cheeks as he
blinked, the perfect curve of his jaw.

"You like tea, then?"

"Do I... oh, yes. Beaumont makes the most wonderful blends. What about
you?"

"I must admit I don't have the strongest feelings toward tea."

"What is it, then, that you have the strongest feelings toward, my
Lord?"

"Come, now. There is no need for such formalities. Here we are, just the
two of us, a measly lord and a respectable lady."

"That is all the more reason for propriety, is it not?"

"Perhaps a prince might know a thing or two about propriety. But I am a
measly lord, as I've said. Might as well call me by my name, as I do
you."

"And what would that be, Lord Fijnst?"

"Liorin Fijnst, at your service. Only Liorin to you, if you please."

"Very well, Only Liorin, what, if anything, do you care for?"

"I do in truth have a passion for clothing. I am lucky in that regard.
Most men must work for their pleasures; I get to work on them." He
cocked his head. "And you? What do you choose to preoccupy yourself
with?"

"Crime."

"I beg your pardon?"

"Novels." Constance chuckled, shrugging. "I would kill for a riveting
crime novel."

Vale laughed, a twinkle of amusement crossing his pretty, brown eyes as
he studied her. "You surprise me, Celeste. There's... an air about you."

"An air about me, my Lord?"

"Liorin. But yes, an air about you. It's like looking through a window
behind which all manner of light and color dances; but the glass is
foggy."

"The words of a man who exchanges personas like socks," Constance said.
"I hesitate to ask if Vale even truly is your given name."

"Ah. Very well," he said, and let silence fill the coach for a spell.
"It is."

The carriage rolled to a slow stop, and he lifted the curtain with a
finger, glancing outside.

"And just as well that we have arrived. Let us drop the pretenses, then.
Just call me Vale." Nimbly leaping out of the carriage, Vale offered his
hand, helping Constance down. "Celeste?"

"Thank you," she said, alighting on the soft grass. They were in an
enclosed garden hemmed in by high walls and higher trees, empty despite
its manicured state. Daylilies, marigolds, and gardenias outlined a path
that diverged and circled back into itself, hydrangea shrubs pressed
around orange trees like royal guards. A lily-strewn pool took center
place, ringed by a circle of limestone pillars. "Is this where you bring
all your mistresses?"

"Oh, no. This is where I come to hide from them," he said, gesturing at
the verdant expanse lush with color as he took a few steps backward,
into the path, still facing Constance.

"Is that so? And me?"

"You are no mistress," he said. "And I do not believe I could hide from
you, Celeste."

"And why is that?"

"You cannot hide from fate."

Constance stared at the young man before him, high cheekbones limned by
the sun, his blooming grin radiant in the golden light. *Trouble.*

"Race you to that tree?" Vale said, pointing at a particularly large
orange tree halfway across the garden.

"To the big branch?" Constance asked. "The one with the cluster of
oranges at its end?"

"That's the one."

"All right," she said. "On three?"

Vale nodded.

"Okay." She smiled at him, already gathering up her skirts. "Three."
