---
layout: chapter-template
title: "Interlude"
story_slug: "everblue"
story: "Everblue"
chapter: 11
---

The hum of discourse rose toward the carved dome of the royal ballroom,
suppressing the airy notes of the orchestra. Conversation and champagne
bubbled together, pleasant lies and pleasantries exchanged over sips
from overflowing glasses.

Constance ambled through the crowd, tucking apprehension away in the
glittering pink tulle of her skirts. The Toll Marren nobility mingled
with a politeness particular to the early hours of merriment. Her
glances skimmed through them in search of a singular face.

It was a silly idea. After these past few weeks of party-crashing, any
occasion with a conglomerate of the prince's most favored was a risky
encounter; none so stupid as tonight's reception at the royal palace.
But Vale had missed the Halstad ball, as well as the Greening Fair at
the Westerliss estate. Then the invitations had arrived for Prince
Solgaard's ball; and before she could stop herself, the Lady Celeste had
procured a ballgown and a counterfeit invite, and walked right up to the
palace gates. Her wisdom had resisted each step her heart had taken. Her
legs had sympathized with the latter.

*What am I doing?* her mind now demanded, taking in the vast ballroom
with its hundred courtiers observing the necessary niceties. Vale was
nowhere to be seen.

Baroness Leyana Veenstra came into view as Lord and Lady Ashgren
shuffled away, talking animatedly to the Leif siblings, who were doing
their best to seem interested; there was no mistaking the call for help
in their furtive glances.

*I'm already here,* Constance thought to herself as she wended her way
over. *Might as well use the occasion.*

She had been boasting about some new painting Baron Veenstra had
commissioned from the young Sylverni sensation Miren Auregar when her
eyes caught Constance, making her abandon the sentence mid-way through.

"Lady Veenstra," Constance said as she dropped to a curtsy.

"Ah, Lady Celeste, a pleasure to see you again," Baroness Veenstra said,
pulling Constance in for a kiss. She was a woman much dedicated to the
art of preening, as was evident in her intricate headdress and frilly
coral gown, her cheeks and lips rouged appropriately and her d√©colletage
resplendent with powdered gold.

"The pleasure is all mine, my Lady," said Constance with a smile.

"I was just telling Avita and Elian here about the Auregar piece we
bought. Are you familiar with her work?"

"Miren Auregar?" Constance said, letting interest echo within her words.
"I have heard her renown, of course; but I have not had the good fortune
to see her work in person."

"Oh? But you must simply come to see it, then. Dreadfully talented, that
girl. Of course, you have the narrow-minded purists discrediting any
young artist they don't understand --- doesn't have a point of view, too
derivative, not derivative enough... You will hear that sort of talk
about all the prodigies, won't you, and certainly one has heard them
about all the greats --- Zager, Haas, even Benedetti... One must not let
the old guard establish hegemony over what is art and what is not.
Anyway, as I was saying... talented, dreadfully talented. You must come
see the painting. It is breathtaking."

"I would love to see it." Constance leaned toward the woman. "Where do
you display a piece like that? Surely you have found a worthy spot?"

"Oh, of course, we hung it right above the mantelpiece in the drawing
room. We used to have a portrait of the baron's great-uncle there, a
ghastly thing, so I told him, 'Well, dearest, it is going to have to go.
No disrespect to your great-uncle, of course, I would hang him up
anywhere else if there were any space left in the house, any space at
all; but you know as well as I do that there isn't... Perhaps you can
find a suitable place for him elsewhere.'"

Constance laid a light hand on the baroness's arm. "Oh?"

"Oh yes, it is not a small thing, either. He suggested hanging it up in
his office but decided against it after a day. He says it does not match
the carpet, but I think it just makes him uncomfortable, to be watched
by that painting all day while he works. Anyway, he's stashed it in one
of the apartments where we store old family jewels and antique
furniture. A bit of a waste, but what are you going to do, you can't
convince the man to get rid of the things; so at least they are out of
the way now."

Excitement bubbled up in Constance's stomach. "Oh? Do you have a lot of
apartments you use as storage rooms?"

Leyana Veenstra cocked her head and sighed. "A few. I keep telling him
we could use them as vacation houses, or sell them, or rent them out. I
managed to convince him to clear one out a few months ago and I thought
I could convince him to clear out all the others but he is as obstinate
as a goat."

"Oh, I hope you don't think me too forward for asking, but what of the
apartment?" Constance asked. "Where is it located?"

"The vacated apartment? It is the one on Lysgade Row, just above
Beaumont's Tea Emporium. Have you been there? The man is a magician.
Just, dreadfully talented, you know. We simply must go some time,
Celeste."

"Oh, definitely," Constance gushed. "I love Beaumont's teas. His Moonlit
Jasmine-Infused Silver Needle Tea with Hand-Picked Bergamot and
Gold-Flecked Osmanthus is exquisite, I cannot get enough of it."

"Truly!"

"Yes, my Lady Veenstra, we simply must go soon," Constance said. "Silly
me, I almost forgot to ask. Are you renting out the apartment?"

"The apartment? Oh, right, the apartment," Baroness Veenstra said
absent-mindedly in between sips. "Yes, the baron rented it out to one of
his friends."

Constance watched the woman's gaze dart about as her words stopped their
gushing onslaught, feigning ignorance and disinterest. *Archduke
Ganders.* She did not let the elation of the discovery settle into her
expression. *So the rumors are true. And she knows.*

"That is a pity. I thought to ask, as my cousin is planning to move to
the capital and is searching for an apartment. It would have been a
lovely arrangement... oh, well. I'm sure we will find something."

"Oh, yes. So sorry," the woman said. "Still, I can ask around, if you
like? I think the Ashgrens might have something suitable."

"That would be wonderful --- so kindly of you."

"Oh, of course. I shall ask imminently."

"How rude of me," Constance said, turning to the empty space that the
Leifs had been occupying minutes ago. "I inserted myself right into your
conversation. They must have been terribly irked by my imposition.
Please excuse my ill manners; I was simply too delighted."

"Oh, no bother, dearest," Baroness Veenstra said, flashing her a
pearlescent smile. "They were wholly unimpressed by the Auregar piece.
You were a breath of fresh air, to tell you the truth."

"Well, that is a relief, then." Constance paused for a moment as her
eyes caught the slight figure of a man across the room, brown-haired and
elegantly dressed, his back turned to her. Her heart, previously quiet,
now made its presence felt again as it began to desperately hammer
against her ribcage. *There you are.* "It was so lovely seeing you
again, my Lady."

"Likewise, my dear."

Constance curtsied again and turned away, letting the mingling crowd's
movement carry her toward Vale.

*Walk up to him. No. Pretend you haven't seen him. What am I going to
say? 'You like Auregar?' Shit. What am I doing?*

Sudden fanfare silenced the voice in her head as her path was cut short
by the crowd's collective response. As the strings ceased and trumpets
blared, all two hundred noble guests as well as the servants stopped to
turn toward the entryway gallery, the most eager of the courtiers
already rushing to the frontline of the crowd to spearhead their grand
duty of flattery.

The trumpets halted momentarily to accommodate the herald's voice, which
filled the ballroom with a booming timber before the fanfare
recommenced. "His Royal Highness, Prince Calron Solgaard, the esteemed
heir to the illustrious throne of Toll Marre."

Perhaps she could land next to Vale in the crowd aggregating by the
stairs to welcome the prince, brush gently against him --- *What a
lovely coincidence, my Lord ---* and his eyes would light up as he...
But no, Vale was too far and already lost in the press of people.

*Later,* Constance thought. *Let's see the prince, then. This should be
interesting, at least.*

There was much talk about the prince that she had already caught, always
veiled in the highest regard, and more that she had not. It painted the
picture of a prince whose keen gaze followed the lords and ladies of his
court like a hawk, whose ire fell on them suddenly and without mercy
should that gaze find so much as an offending glance. To those loyal to
him he was distant, but not unkind. Grand, always attired in the most
exquisite garments and styled in the latest fashions, Calron Solgaard
was no stranger to the mirror. Effective, studious, inclined to lock
himself in his study until first light. Calron Solgaard, the sole heir
of Darris Solgaard, had laid out before him a paved path to the Toll
Marren throne, and all the makings of a mad king.

A reign of silence took over as the trumpets ceased their fanfare, and
anticipation hung heavy in its stead. Footsteps echoing against the
polished marble declared his entrance once more. Then, the prince
emerged into view as he approached the gallery's rim.

Constance froze.

It was only the face he wore that was familiar to her, and nothing else
about the man who now eyed the crowd gathered beneath. It remained a
mask of forbidding disrelish, of judgment and pride, as the weight of
his regard swept over his lesser subjects. He carried himself with the
air, not of a prince, not of a king, but of a god.

Calron Solgaard's lips curled up to reveal a smile that held no warmth,
and every pair of eyes in the room followed as he moved to the stairs,
his wicked grin evaporating as he began his descent. Polished metal
glimmered on his decorated chest, his rings a more lavish display than
the simple bands he had been wearing at the Westerliss ball. His gaze
remained itinerant. Even the shadows seemed to cringe out of his way.

At last, his regard fell upon Constance.

The fleeting second seemed to stretch on too long, a pressing force
against the moments that preceded and succeeded it.

Then, the crack she thought she saw in his mask perished along with his
straying gaze, leaving her to wonder whether it had been a trick of the
light or of her mind.

*You fool,* the voice in Constance's mind echoed in a mere whisper.

As he alighted on the last step, the gathered press of people unfurled
out of their frozen state to kneel before their prince. Constance, too,
lowered herself into a curtsy, her mind now reeling as the world whirled
about her, as though recovering from that snag in the fabric of time.

*Leave, you fool. Leave, and do not return.*

Calron Solgaard glanced at the orchestra; the music rose once more
toward the carved dome of the ballroom, as though it had only paused for
a breath. Constance turned away as the wave of courtiers began their
soft approach.

*Better to leave now while he's flooded by the sycophants,* she thought,
the hand of anxiety wringing her stomach into a knot, the butterflies
now in full revolt. *Slip out now without getting noticed, and all will
be well.*

She sidled along the rim of the approaching press of people, weaving her
way between chiffon and tulle away from the stairs as she eyed the
gold-capes. Two stationed by each statue across the perimeter of the
room, plus the ones posted along the half-moon of the gallery. There was
no discernible exit other than the grand doors upstairs through the
gallery, which was flanked by two illustrious guards at the ready.

Taking one's leave for a few minutes would not constitute an offence ---
one might have to see to private matters in the privy, after all; but
the absence of accompanying maids, especially while attired in an
intricate gown as she was, might raise a brow. And doing so right after
the prince's grand entrance would be outright insolent. She glanced
about, searching for cracks to take shelter in and congregations to
occupy herself while she bided her time. Away from the gold-capes'
vigilant gazes, and certainly, the prince's.

She wove her way through the crowd, quietly, carefully, always close
enough to disappear into the forest of figures, never close enough for
Prince Solgaard's eyes to fall on her. Her heart pounded in her chest,
mocking.

Calron Solgaard. The man she had come to see tonight, the young nobleman
with his easy air and his charming smile that hid his silver tongue. The
Prince of Toll Marre.

Constance felt the champagne bubbling over into her thoughts, dizzying.

*You are being silly,* she told herself. *You've met him twice. He
probably doesn't even remember you.*

And yet her pounding heartbeat drummed on and on in her ears, her hand
shakier than she would have liked around her empty glass. Her stomach
tumbled and twisted without regard for the pleas of her mind.

*I think I'm going to be sick.* She paused at once, the corners of her
lips twitching into a small smile. *Yes, I am going to be sick. That
would be quite unseemly, wouldn't it, in His Highness's ballroom no
less. Really, one should take care of this outside lest one offends His
Highness.*

A few more minutes, just to be on the safe side, and then she would
leave as soon as the ceremony began to fizzle out.

Slowly, the drone of chatter crescendoed, a light, trilling minuet
filling the room. The guests returned to the ebb and flow of mingling,
servants swerving through the crowd with trained agility to replenish
the emptying flutes. Constance negotiated the crowd, maneuvering her way
toward the stairs.

And at last, as Calron Solgaard turned away to receive the bowing Baron
and Baroness Veenstra, she darted up the stairs with half-concealed
urgency, her hand flying to her mouth as she approached the door.

The guards spared no more than a glance for the damsel fleeing
embarrassment.

She stalked down the halls stippled with guards and servants, wending
her way toward the retiring rooms with assured steps. Sentries stationed
to keep wayward guests from wandering away into the private quarters of
the palace watched her go, boredom plain on their faces.

*Shit.*

Far too early for a conspicuous departure --- and then there was the
matter of exits. There was no coach to take her home, as was expected of
the noble guests in attendance. A noblewoman sauntering out of the
palace without a coach or a maid would be sure to attract attention. She
needed a plan. A ruse? The guise of a servant? A conspicuous break for
it?

*Priorities,* Constance reminded herself. *For now, shelter.*

The retiring rooms, while *conspicuous,* left her with few openings to
exploit. She needed a less constricting space, one that she would be
allowed into and that would not arouse suspicion. Somewhere she could
kill some time, and hopefully hatch a plan.

There was a simple way out of this. She just needed to find it.

*The gardens.*

Wending her way down the stairs, Constance headed for the palace
gardens, freedom beckoning with its evening air rife with fresh grass
and evening primrose. The smattering of guards along the way let through
without trouble the young noblewoman in need of fresh air, though she
felt their attention on her even as she fell away, not alarmed, but
carefully observant. She had not escaped their vigil yet; but she had
given herself wriggle room, and for now, that sufficed.

She was only a flight of stairs and two corners away from the gates when
her path was cut short by a voice that made air itself feel crisp with
frost around the edges.

"Lady Celeste," Calron Solgaard's voice echoed off the stone walls of
the palace.

Slowly, Constance turned to find the prince three strides away, emerging
from the mouth of a narrow corridor, and the hall otherwise deserted.
"Your Highness." Her sweet smile battled the urge to grit her teeth as
she dropped into a curtsy. "Or Lord Vale, should I say? I thought you
said that was your given name."

"It truly is my name." There, standing in the wan light of the lanterns,
it was clear to Constance that Prince Calron Solgaard had, in all
respects but costume, washed off the young man, leaving behind only
Vale. His regard was bare and unaffected, in it a warmth that was
altogether lacking from the imposing monarch-to-be from minutes ago. A
softness that had been whittled away then. "The one my mother calls me
by."

This time, no shadows seemed to cower away as he took a step forward ---
it was he who was swallowed by them, eager tendrils licking at the
glimmering medals arrayed on his chest. He seemed a smaller man now,
delicate hands and feminine features, that wicked gleam that had reigned
in his gaze as he had stood on the gallery now a ghost, a
half-remembered falsehood. Yet his tone was water from a mountain lake;
calm, clear, cold. "I do not recall penning you an invitation."

Constance smoothed her skirts with her hands, matching his mountain lake
with fresh dawn snow. "I didn't realize His Highness penned his own
invitations."

Something between a sigh and a chuckle escaped the prince.
"Figuratively."

"Well, then." She lifted her chin slightly, the promise of a smile
playing on her lips. "Will you have me punished for trespassing?"

"That depends."

"On?"

He beheld her for a spell, something lurking in the silence that bloomed
in the void. Constance could feel it there, prowling, significant.
*Trouble.*

"You came." His voice came as little more than a rasp when he spoke.
"Why?"

*Oh.* "To see you," Constance said. "Or, to see Vale, rather. Not sure
which of you I am talking to, right now."

A smile tugged at the corners of his lips as he considered her. "How did
you do it?"

"You don't want me to tell you," Constance said, adding quickly at the
twitch of his brows, "Your Highness."

"And why is that?"

Her heart drummed into the hefty silence once more before her voice
pierced it, barely loud enough for the deserted corridor but without the
breathy airiness of a whisper. It rang steady and assured, like her gaze
that remained unfalteringly leveled against his. "Because you want to
see me again."

Vale's step was slow, pregnant with tension and intent. "There are
easier ways to find me, Lady Celeste."

"Is that so?"

Lamplight played in his kohl-rimmed eyes, a spark flickering to life in
their warm, chocolate-brown depths. "If you're the one looking."

Constance stood rooted in her spot though she felt the invisible cord
between them grow tauter, pressing. "Must you know?"

"It is a security issue," he said with a light shrug.

Constance beheld him for a moment, hesitancy keeping words at bay. "I
forged my invitation. No fences were climbed over this time, I assure
you. My crimes did not reach further than my pen." She raised a brow,
cocking her head to one side as she challenged his scrutiny. "So now,
your Highness, what is my sentence to be?"

The seconds gelled once more into molasses as consideration settled into
his mien. The full weight of his attention pressed down on Constance.
She sensed her ears sharpen, harkening to bells; the response was one of
silence. A laden, expecting silence that marked a moment that dictated
fate, a turning of the tide.

"I would have sent one anyway," Vale said at last. "Had I known where to
send it."

It was her turn to claim the silence. She ignored the commotion in her
chest and her stomach, focusing on her perfect poise and still hands as
he drew another step closer, too close, far too close, his warmth
bleeding into hers, his brown eyes demanding too much of her attention.

"I should have you appointed minister of the arcane, you know," he said
off-handedly.

"...Pardon, Your Highness?"

"Who else across the Crowned Coasts can match the enchantress who has
imposed her dominion over my thoughts so, with such efficiency and
effect? A little boastfully, perhaps; but even so, my mind has been
unceasingly occupied by her, ever since that day in the Westerliss
garden, and I find myself utterly helpless against it."

"I really must be going, your Highness."

"There you are again, Celeste, disappearing before I have had the
privilege of a dance."

"Next time," Constance found herself saying. She brushed past him, and
for a moment the touch of his shoulder singularly stole her focus; then
it was gone, leaving a puzzling longing in its stead. Only after a few
steps did she come to her senses enough to turn and drop into another
curtsy before striding away.

"Where do I find you?" his voice stopped her once more right as she
reached the end of the hall, a step away from her freedom.

Constance glanced over her shoulder, Vale now too distant to discern the
warm brown eyes or the intent curiosity in them, the upward-curving
edges of his full lips, or the delicate line to his jaw. From her
vantage, it seemed almost plausible that the man on the other end of the
hall was Prince Calron Solgaard.

She smiled at him; then, she winked, before disappearing behind the
corner.

*In the winds, Calron Solgaard,* she thought, *blowing as far from you
as possible, if I have a dredge of good sense left in me.*
