---
layout: chapter-template
title: "Interlude"
story_slug: "everblue"  # Matches the "slug" from stories.yml
story: "Everblue"
chapter: 4
---

Spring air breezed through Lord Westerliss's garden, caressing gently
the evening blossoms freckling the trees. With the perfume of citrus in
the air and sunset haze on the delicate leaves, the walled-off estate
felt little like a part of the city that lay beyond. A mild stream
burbled over cool rocks into the pond and stirred the lilies lazing on
the clear water. The sounds of the evening's revelries spilled over into
the grounds, laughter and music melding with birdsong.

Constance sat on a branch, watching the shifting silhouettes in the
windows of the manor house. A half hour ago she had slipped away through
the champagne-dazed crowd on a quest for fresh air. She'd strolled down
the path into the emerald-garbed copse, where a great maple tree had
shaken its branches and fluttered its leaves, inviting. Slippered feet
finding footholds on the trunk with catlike grace, she had pulled
herself up onto a branch, perching onto the branch collar with ease.

Soon after, the horns had blared, announcing the prince\'s arrival. His
retinue, a colorful procession adorned in gold capes, had escorted him
inside, interrupting the festivities with a stately ceremony. Constance
had wanted to go inside to see the prince, but the champagne had her
feeling sluggish, and the eventide air was perfectly mild; so instead,
she'd watched the party on pause from afar, one leg swinging idly below
her as the crowd went down on their knees inside the manor house.

Now, the dancing seemed to be picking back up, a waltz on the strings.
Constance closed her eyes, humming along, the silk of her gown soft
against her tingling fingertips as she twiddled idly with her skirts. *I
should go back to the party,* a voice whispered in her mind, but the
tipsy bliss running wild in her veins had other ideas. She had not
climbed over the fence in an evening gown to sit in the garden, that
much was true; however, the sun had barely touched the horizon, and the
moon was yet to waltz away the night with the stars. All Constance had
to do was to leave before the sobering Westerlisses took a careful look
at their guests and found her unfamiliar face amongst them, and if the
noble hosts lived up to a fraction of their reputation, a full night of
carousing was as good as promised before that.

Footsteps on soft grass reached Constance's ears through the chorus of
chirping bugs. She cracked an eye, seeking the source --- *there*, a
moving figure was weaving through the trees down below, unhurried and
alone, by the sound of it. The figure ambled closer, stopping under a
great oak, only just within sight. A man, garbed in a black silk shirt
and fitted trousers, stood with his back turned to her, gaze trained at
the flowerbed separating the copse and the manor. For a spell, he
remained there, before retreating further into the sanctuary of the
oak's shadow.

Constance watched him from atop her branch. He looked young --- in the
midst of his twenties, maybe --- and not of particularly tall stature;
but he stood there with an air becoming of a king even as he rested,
leaning against the oak's bough. A leaf fluttered down to land on his
shoulder, brushing past his black hair, though he seemed not to notice
for he did not remove nor acknowledge it. Rings glinted on his visible
hand, his rolled-up sleeves revealing slender forearms.

"It's even nicer up here, you know." The words flowed out of Constance
just as the champagne had flowed in.

He jumped ever so slightly, startlement plain on his face as he pivoted
towards her. Sharp features came into focus as he stepped forth, and the
faint beginnings of a smile touched his lips as he regarded her. "How
did you..."

"Get up here?" Constance plucked a leaf, using the distraction to palm
her ring with her other, twisting it. At once, kindling sparks
illuminated her face and caught the leaf, life becoming flame. Puffs of
smoke twined around her flourished fingers as it burned up. "I'm magic."

"Is that so?" he said, smile growing. "In that case, I'm stuck down
here, I'm afraid. I have no magic of my own."

"Pity."

"Would you mind getting down yourself?"

Constance cocked her head. "And why ever should I do that?"

"I'm rather attached to my neck, as it turns out, and I would sooner not
break it in my endeavor to talk to a pretty lady, as worthwhile as it
may be. And since I don't possess the magic to help me up..."

"I'm sure you can manage without."

"Maybe. Will you teach me that trick if I do come up?"

"I might consider it."

A sigh of resignation preceded a glance about, hesitation in his stance
as he turned his gaze back to her, assessing. Then, with another sigh,
he grabbed a low branch and began to haul himself up. His fingertips had
just grazed a second, higher branch when, with a *crack,* the first one
gave. He fell, managing to right himself but only just. Silvery laughter
pealed from Constance before she even knew it.

"Is there something funny?" he said, though his grin belied him. Once
more he approached the tree, determination in his step. Then, he
scrambled up, this time succeeding in lifting himself up and onto the
tree, albeit not so much in looking graceful as he did. Constance moved
to give him space, and he huffed, clapping dirt off his hands as he
settled in.

He was a pretty man, rather feminine, his skin smooth and his lips
defined. Delicate fingers ran through his hair, cleanly manicured.
Dusted with gray powder, his lids framed his deep brown eyes, his brows
perfectly arched. A pretty man indeed. "So. Magic."

"What about it?" Constance asked.

"You were going to teach me."

"I said I might consider it."

He paused, considering her for a moment with flowering amusement, silken
collar rippling in the breeze. "I don't know you, do I?"

"I don't believe we've been introduced," Constance said. "I'm Celeste."

"Celeste," he repeated, the name sweet on his tongue. A breeze brushed
past the pair of them, wafting the brine of the sea that lay just beyond
the estate walls.

"...And you are?" she said at last, speaking into the awkward hush.

Wonder whetted his smile as he eyed her, lips parted slightly. "Vale."

"You live in the city, Lord Vale?"

"Yes, I'm Toll Marren, born and raised. And you?"

"My arrival was fairly recent."

"That explains why we haven't met. You are from the east, yes? What good
wind has brought you here?"

"I am accompanying my father who is here to negotiate a business
partnership. I usually take care of his ledgers, so I thought it prudent
to join him."

"You speak impeccable Toll Marren."

"Thank you. My grandmother on my mother's side was Toll Marren,"
Constance said. "What about you? What do you do?"

"What do I do?" Vale chuckled. "I study, mostly."

"You're a student? Of what?"

"Oh, of most things really. Law, history, language... you name it, I
study it."

"And what are you most fascinated by?"

"What am I most fascinated by?" he repeated, meeting her gaze, a hungry
spark nascent in his eyes. "Magic."

Through her intoxicated haze, she studied him, his expression frozen in
rapture. High cheekbones, defined jaw, and straight nose contoured by
the setting sun spelled one thing for Constance. *Trouble.*

"You should not have told me that," she said. "Now I have all the more
reason not to show you my magic trick."

"And why is that?"

"Because you really want to know, so much so that you'll lose sleep over
this tonight. *How does she do it,* you will keep asking yourself, and
by the time you realize you cannot get me out of your mind, it will be
too late."

"I am sorry to tell you that your secrecy is pointless."

"And why is that?"

"Because it is real magic that fascinates me, not parlor tricks," said
Vale. "Besides, I am not going to be able to get you out of my mind
whether or not you show me how you light a leaf with your bare hands."

Constance breathed in the sweet spring air, heartbeats quickening. An
excitement all too familiar rushed into her heart as the last rays of
the sun battled the first light of the moon. *Trouble.*

"It's my ring." She produced it, fingertips tingling, and twisted the
crown. Sparks became alive once more, reflected in his dark eyes for a
moment before they went out, this time finding nothing to consume. "It
was a gift."

Gus had given it to her not long ago as a practical way to light small
fires, a dainty ring with an emerald in the same deep green of his eyes.
The maker often worked on trinkets whenever his larger projects hit a
dead-end --- *redirecting his arcane energies,* he called it. And once
his energies were sufficiently redirected, he would return to his
magical machines with renewed vigor, and Constance would get to keep
most of the little bits and bobs.

"How does it work?" Vale's hand grazed hers as he took it, his curiosity
stirred despite himself. "Is it chemical or mechanical?"

"Neither." Constance grinned. "It really is magic."

She watched him as he turned it over in inspection, ignoring the alarm
bells in her mind.

"Ah. I think I see how it's done. There must be a Maxwell gate in there
that focuses your body heat. Clever." He offered it back to her, and she
held out her hand to take it; he slipped it on her finger instead. "So,
how do you know Lord and Lady Westerliss?"

A giggle bubbled out of Constance despite herself, causing Vale to cock
a perfectly arched brow in response. *Idiot,* she thought to herself.
*How much have you had to drink?* "I don't, as a matter of fact."

Vale narrowed his eyes.

"And it would not be entirely truthful to say that I had an invitation
to be here tonight, strictly speaking."

For a second he considered her, and the cogs in Constance's mind began
to whir, new falsehoods on its spindle. But then the edges of his lips
curled up, both brows rising in unison. "And they didn't ask at the
door?"

"I wouldn't know. I didn't enter through the door." She smiled back at
him. "I climbed over the fence."

This time, his laughter pealed through the garden, songbirds warbling in
answer. *Trouble.*

"In fact, I should probably get going."

"Already? The ball hasn't even begun in earnest, Celeste."

"I only intended to steal away for a couple of hours," Constance said.
"I'd best return before my father notices my absence."

He breathed deeply, the beginnings of a protest on his expression. But
it never came to fruition. "If you say so..." He sighed; then, looking
down, grinned. "You will first have to find a way down, though."

"Well..." With a demure smile, she jumped off her perch and caught the
branch, swinging down to land lightly on her heeled slippers.

His laugh echoed off the trees again, and he followed, lowering himself
from the branch before dropping right beside Constance. With a hand, he
smoothed the legs of his trousers, then gestured toward the wall. "After
you."

Brushing gently against him as she passed, she wended her way to the
unmanned wall behind the guesthouse, Vale at her heels. Stretching more
than five paces high, the bordering wall rose into the young night,
forming a barrier between the glittering estate and the grime of the
Hand. "This is me, I suppose. I hope you won't find the party too dry in
my absence."

"Oh, I shall, upon the very essence of my existence." He met her eyes,
his temples aglow with the light from the rising moon. "Good night,
Celeste."

"And good night to you," Constance said, and she began to scale the
wall, quickly pulling herself up along it despite the gown.

"Celeste," Vale called out as she crested it; she paused, turning to
look down at him. "Will I see you again?"

Then, with a final smile, she swung her legs over the bulwark, and
disappeared into the city beyond.
