---
layout: chapter-template
title: "Chapter 6: Edges"
story_slug: "3rfm"
story: "Three Rules for Murder"
chapter: 6
---

The figure half-wreathed in shadow turned slightly, his regard falling
on Irena with impartial curiosity before returning to the dark courtyard
below.

He was tall, dark-haired, broad of shoulder though otherwise slender. At
once, Irena felt all too conscious of herself, the large span between
them seeming too small. She shuttered her eyes again, letting silence
continue its reign.

*So here I am in a pretty dress, at a pretty party, alone with a boy,*
she thought. *And my best hope? Quiet indifference. Do not take notice
of me, I pray. Istikbal, let it be so.*

Her heart hammered against her ribcage, hands trembling like brittle
autumn leaves on their branches soon to be fared well. The night swathed
around her shoulders carried the scent of pines and ancient stones, the
ever-crisp mountain air redolent with that familiar brimstone and moss
of magic hewn into the very foundation of the Academy. And astride a
distant breeze Irena thought she could smell the Night Market, only ever
faintly, a bouquet of spice and smoke, burnt wood and copper, enticing,
enchanting. It was a ghost, a phantom, a sense so intangible as to
suggest imagination. It beckoned to her, that buzz, that poem of chaos
that drew her in and crawled on her skin with more and more heat the
closer she got. The song of chaos hummed above and below the drone of
the crowd woven into the orchestra's notes, light enough to float atop
and deep enough to rumble beneath it.

"Not big on parties?"

Irena's eyes fluttered open as panic gripped her, fueled by the alcohol
now buzzing through her system. Though her body did not move, she felt
her consciousness crash down into the stone floor, catching the pitiful
thing, grounding.

The young man had turned to her again, his profile outlined by the light
of the Aetherial Quill, a pulse radiating from him not so subtly equable
as Mark Lee's, but livelier. His skin was pale, his stature stately.
*And that face,* her thoughts echoed through her head before she could
do anything to stop it.

"You might say that," she said, her voice coming out too breathy for her
liking. "And yourself?"

He turned, flashing her a dimpled smile, and Irena was suddenly very
glad for the solid wall behind her to lean on. "It's not so bad."

"Just getting fresh air, then?"

"You might say that," the stranger said. "I\'m enjoying the view."

"The view?"

The smile on his lips blossomed into a moon-touched grin, stars dancing
in his dark eyes.

*Gods damn it,* Irena cursed inwardly. *Stop simpering like a little
girl.*

"The stars look beautiful tonight," he said, gesturing toward the
star-freckled midnight sky. There was an air to the motion, an air both
casual and sincere, as though truth and untruth cohabited his demeanor.

"Uh-huh."

The whisper of a faint breeze rustled against the silence that spanned
the distance between them, and Irena shivered, feeling undressed. He
regarded her for a moment, interest fringing the pulse that emanated
from him. "I don\'t believe we\'ve met."

"I don\'t believe so, either," Irena said. *I would have remembered
that, surely.* "Irena."

"Jaehyun. First year?"

"Second."

"Oh, me too."

A memory jumped Irena's mind as she stared in spite of herself. *Ah.
Jaehyun. Friends with Cha Eun Woo and Mingyu, aren't you?* That made
sense. Only in *their* company would he have any chance of evading
notice.

He had not moved from his spot at the edge of the balcony thus far; but
now he took two steps toward her, still fringing the space, clinging to
the palisades. "So is it the music, the shoes, or the mob of people who
must be queueing up inside to have your hand for a dance?"

And *he is a charmer.* Irena shrugged, praying that the gesture seemed
offhand as she placed her shaking hands between her back and the fa√ßade
of the Main Building. "I don\'t like crowds."

"So there\'s still hope for a dance, then."

"Perhaps," said Irena. "Later."

He only graced her with a satisfied smile and returned to his study of
the courtyard below.

"Are you waiting for something?" she asked with a glance in the
direction of his gaze.

"Not in particular. I just had an inkling I should be here," he
muttered, his attention still unwaveringly trained on the garden. He
broke away from it a second later, shooting her a look. "I was right, it
seems."

Irena raised her brows as heat rushed to her cheeks, even as she fought
to still the tremors racking her body. *A dangerous face, with a
dangerous smile hiding a dangerous tongue.*

The Quasar game plagued the thought, the cynicism hammered into her by
her curriculum resurfacing. *Beware not of the knife's sharp edge
gleaming proudly, but of the frostveil sweet as honey on your tongue.*

She followed the knit of his perfect brows, that slight focused frown
that hung on his full lips as he turned back to his mysterious quarry.

An intensity pulsed within his equable aura, his attention flavored with
something --- Curiosity? Danger? Irena felt her mind reach for it,
harkening to the harmonizing frequencies of his thoughts and emotions.
Sober, distilling the brew of the average person's mental state was a
task sure to induce a headache in Irena. Now, such as she was, dizzy,
dazed, having fled the ball in mental distress, it was insurmountable.

*Your magical prowess is a tool --- not the toolbox,* Roidac's voice
whispered in her mind. *A sword will cut your enemies, but you wouldn't
pluck your brows with it. Don't neglect the tweezers just because you
are a master of your sword.* *A single mind is but a single arrow ---
the one that finds your heart and makes a home of it.*

She watched him watch the courtyard below, a tension coiled in his
muscular figure. One thing stood starkly clear in the fog of Irena's
mind. Whatever was down there was important to Jaehyun.

*And sharp is the edge of important.*

Usually, the Academy's way of coaxing answers entailed a conversation
that had nothing to do with the question, the conversational equivalent
of a proxy war. Unfortunately, Irena had no penchant for games of
cunning, and a very low toleration for alcohol. "You seem to be quite
taken with whatever is down there."

"Not at all. Merely averting my gaze from your blin---" Jaehyun's
sentence dangled mid-air as though cut by a knife, his eyes narrowing.
Every breath, every motion now rife with consequence, his eyes slowly
slid to Irena, alertness now prowling in them. "Will you excuse me a
moment?"

Irena shivered as he moved toward her. The spark of anticipation had at
last kindled into action.

All at once the wintry mountain air was sizzling against her skin, pink
clouds misting her head as he walked toward her, his presence too solid,
too close --- and then *past* her.

His body brushed against her as he grabbed the pipe right beside her, a
strange whorl of colors bleeding into her for a single moment; in a
single, fluid motion he pulled himself up, his muscles tensing under his
shirt as they hoisted his mass; yet in the way of grace was no absence.

*What is he doing?* she thought as her lungs forgot air itself. *But
gods, he is strong.*

He disappeared over the rim of the slanted roof, into the shadow of the
night.

<center>*</center>

Irena awoke with a headache she suspected had scant to do with a
nightmare, for once.

The sun had already crested the sky and flooded Irena's room, its bright
light illuminating the mess of it. Her gown lay discarded on the floor,
her shoes removed as soon as she had stepped through the door, makeup
strewn all over her table.

She groaned as she sat up, her stomach revolting against the motion. Her
night had been a blur of bubbling champagne, mid-waltz whispers, and
stardust as the hours gossiped away the night under the changing
constellations of lanterns. Now, the glittering veil of the dance had
been lifted. Now remained only the cold embrace of a world that had
nothing but claws and teeth to offer.

She chewed on a tablet of dawnthistle to quieten her stomach as she got
dressed, her headache a hefty weight behind her eyes --- one that was
almost welcome after weeks of waking up with thought-consuming pain that
rendered her unable to stand.

She left the House just as the noon bell tolled, dark, barren branches
swaying as swarms of birds took to the sky. The summits of Terreter had
finally welcomed the deep winter whose touch had grazed her on the
balcony last night --- the *balcony*.

The ensuing whirlwind of the ball had dismissed any immediate thoughts
of the encounter for the rest of the night. Irena shivered as she
recalled the chill of the night on her arms, Jaehyun's moon-touched grin
meant for none other than her. Her mind raced through its images of the
ball after he had disappeared over the rim of the roof, finding nothing.
If he had returned to the ballroom, Irena had not crossed his path to
witness it.

*I would remember that.* The thought came unbidden to her, tasting of
tar. *Don't be silly. Why would you?*

The courtyard at the center of the Academic Complex was teeming with
students already recovered, the familiar rhythm of the Academy's ways
restored without a hitch. Most students fleeing the regret of the night
would have done so during the small hours of the morning; anything past
the seventh bell was a secret kept between no less than the entire
Academy. And word of the couples who had stolen away to resume their
dances in the privacy of their dormitories was likely well underway on
its journey through the grapevine. Irena grimaced despite herself as
Ryujin knocked on the doors of her thoughts again. *That was us last
year, or have you already forgotten?*

The Anvil lay to the very east of the compound, at the farthest point
from the cliffside that fell away into the village. She wended her way
to the training wing, where Mindwalkers, Riftcallers, Bladesingers, and
Beastmakers all trained behind closed doors. The walls separating them
betrayed nothing.

The training room assigned to her was large today, and shielded from the
whim of winter that reigned outside. August Vefort sat in the chair
facing the door, her eyes shuttered, her hands motionless on her lap.
Shrugging off her cloak, Irena walked to the empty chair across from the
woman.

"You've had a long night," the August said, lids still shuttered.

"So have you," Irena said. "You now hold the answer to the question on
everybody's minds, August."

"Which is?" An amused twist curled the edge of the August's lips.

"Who is the better dancer? August Roidac or August Feymar?

"That depends," Vefort said. "What makes one dancer superior to the
other?"

"Technique?"

"Sure, if you consider dancing merely the act of dancing. At a social
gathering, though? Is company not just as important, if not more?"

*This school and its inability to keep things simple,* Irena's
thoughts groaned. "So Feymar, then."

Vefort's laugh was a melodic peal. "I gave no such answer."

"But I surmised as much," Irena said. "'*Gathering the pieces is only
half the puzzle.'*"

Vefort stretched her legs and stood, turning her back to Irena as she
walked toward the empty wall across the room. "I wonder if we are
overdoing it a tad with the quotes, here at the Academy."

"*You do?*" Irena asked. "What gave you that impression?"

August Vefort pivoted sharply on her heels.

The air between them came alive, fizzling with a cracking of crystal.
The very shadows nestled in the corners of the room seemed to darken, a
distant ringing echoing in Irena's ears. Something ice-cold clutched at
her heart as her skin tingled with a promise of pain.

"Are you here to match wits, Irena?"

"No, August," Irena said, shrinking back. "I'm here to find the
handkerchief."


<br>
<br>
The mists hung thick over the maze, rife with the smell of damp earth
and petrichor. The darkness

taunting the oily light of Irena's lantern stretched out before and
behind her. In it was only a dreadful, pressing silence, heavy and
hollow all at once.

"I liked the ocean better," Irena muttered under her breath. The earthen
walls swallowed her words, birthing no echoes.

There lay nothing but the warren's walls for a hundred paces ahead and a
hundred paces behind. Breathing in the stale air of the subterranean
maze, Irena closed her eyes, listening to a handkerchief. Beads of sweat
broke out on her forehead even as she shivered, the low, steady fire
from the torches devoid of the comforts of heat though it suffused the
air with a heavy, opressive thickness. The cold that seeped into her
marrows seemed to conspire with the flames, a foe twofold more wicked,
more sinister, ice-cold, hell-hot, enhanced with the power of anathema
and impossibility.

Magic more ancient than the very cliffs of Terreter, more primal than
nature itself --- this was the taste crackling on her tongue as she
listened. The August's mind, wholly neutral at the best of times,
thrummed now with a low rumble from the bowels of the earth-packed
tunnel.

"Focus," cracked the whip of Vefort's voice.

Irena flinched. A wave of energy spewed forth from her as she obeyed,
scouring through the tunnels. More sweat beaded on her forehead. "What
do you see, Irena?"

"I..." she trailed off, her mouth going dry. Nothing. Naught but damp
soil fouled by smoke and ash. Vefort could not be older than forty, and
even that was a stretch --- but the maze of her mind had the gravity of
something primeval.

There, standing at the very center of the welcome chamber the August had
cleared for her, she could feel a part of herself reeling at the
realization. Mindwalking was often discounted, dismissed as a power.
This was not due to any short-sightedness the Academy's pupils might be
suffering from, which stopped them from realizing the true potential of
this particular school of magic. Rather, the issue lay in the inherent
fickleness of Mindwalking. The oldest school of all, older than
Riftcalling --- the second oldest --- and by far, it boasted of a
haughtiness, an arrogance that rendered it the least subservient of all
the powers, one that often eluded its masters.

But when leashed, made docile as the August had, its promise was one of
horror unmatched.

"I don't know, August Vefort," she whispered.

"Your search is too feeble," Vefort said. Her timbre was perfectly
composed. "Try again. Try to project more as you start --- the momentum
will carry the wave forth. You just focus on expelling it."

Irena took a breath, closed her eyes, and tried again, concentrating
singularly on the moment of expulsion. Another wave charged forth, this
time faster, with more volume.‚Ä®"That's better," Vefort said. "See? It's
traveling faster without adding strain, isn't it?"

Irena nodded.

"What do you see?" More packed earth. More tunnel. No handkerchief. She
sighed. "I... It's not here. Or at least, I can't see it."

"Yes. That's because, while your search has more power now, it's still
too scattered. It doesn't know what it's looking for," Vefort said. "Try
to think about the handkerchief --- hone in on it, as keenly as you can,
and *listen*." Irena's thoughts strained under the duress of
singularity. The handkerchief and nothing else. The stupid handkerchief,
which was nothing more than a toy for the August's little treasure
hunt. *How am I supposed to find anything of use in a sheltered,
cluttered mind if I can't find a silly handkerchief Vefort* wants *me to
find in an empty tunnel?*

"Irena, focus." *Right,* Irena thought. *Don't get distracted.
Handkerchief, handkerchief, handkerchief. Come, hankie; what is your
color? Red? Blue? Yellow? *Distantly she thought she sensed, more than
heard, a ripple in the air. Too faint to make out anything tangible, but
a welcome advancement. She began to walk. The potency of magic behaved
quadratically --- for every extra pace she reduced in the distance
between her and her target, its effect was squared.

The August sat quietly, unnerving Irena. She walked, her shadow cast by
the lantern twisting and warping on the walls, reminding Irena of the
folk of the Night Market --- outsize proportions, limbs oddly shaped or
numbered, horns, wings.

With burgeoning worry she noticed the headache flourishing, still
indistinct but doubling with every passing minute, too familiar for
hope. Not the remnants of last night, but the guest that came unbidden
with a greeting every morning.

*Not long to go, now,* she thought, trying to distract herself from the
wandering thoughts. Not only was it a threat to her current mission, the
notion of following that chain within the confines of the August's mind
was a terrible one. *Just find the handkerchief. You can do it.*

Nausea clawed its way up, head growing leaden with pain.

She could hear it now, the pulse of the handkerchief, beckoning to her.
*Victory, please, at last.* She began to tremble. Her body racked, the
warren suddenly chilly against the layer of sweat coating her skin. The
lantern in her hand seemed to become heavier with every step.

*Handkerchief.*

She could feel her chest expanding and shrinking as her lungs fought for
air.

*A few more steps now, come on, Irena.*

She lurched onward, her shoulder hitting hard against the wall before
she knew she was listing. Her vision swam.

*Find the handker ---*

This time, it was Irena's mind that expelled itself. Pain flared through
her limbs, crushing any coalescing thought. Dry-heaving, Irena became
dimly aware of the cold floor of the training room under her.

Then, a tide of darkness, and all was gone.
